{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734583", "text": "Beard Liberation Front\n\nThe Beard Liberation Front (BLF) is a British interest group which campaigns in support of beards and opposes pogonophobic discrimination against those who wear them. It was founded in 1995 by socialist historian Keith Flett who continues to organise and represent the organisation. Apart from its numerous campaigns in support of beards and against pogonophobia in the workplace and discrimination against those who wear beards as part of their religion, it currently hosts the annual Beard of the Year award.\n\nOn the face of it, the campaign is semi-humorous, with its outwardly frivolous aims, its occasionally outlandish claims of discrimination and conspiracy, and its founder, who is also the spokesman for the Campaign for Real Conkers. However, the organisation has drawn attention to more serious issues, having spoken out against, among other incidents, the suspension of a fireman for refusing to shave off his goatee and the banning of beards among ExxonMobil oil workers (in both cases employers claimed that beards interfered with breathing apparatus). Flett believes that an issue of \"real discrimination\" exists against men with beards. Although he admits that a beard, unlike race and gender, is a matter of choice, he has claimed that beardism is associated with more serious forms of discrimination:\n\nThe size of the organisation is unknown; Flett refers to the organisation as \"an informal network\" and has claimed \"a few hundred supporters\" in the past. He is the organisation's sole spokesman in the media.\n\nOn the occasion of its founding, Keith Flett claimed that \"Beards are politically progressive. All the great revolutionary socialists had a beard. Stalin had a moustache.\" The BLF soon took up the cause of beards in British politics. In 1996 the BLF called for a bearded man to be appointed to the Cabinet. According to \"Independent\" diarist Eagle Eye, sources from the Labour Party, then in opposition, promised that if they were elected, the cabinet would include the first bearded minister since Baron Passfield in 1929. Upon Labour's victory in the general election a year later, the bearded Robin Cook was duly appointed Foreign Secretary. Since then, however, the BLF has regarded New Labour as obsessed with a clean-shaven image, with some notable exceptions (including David Blunkett and Charles Clarke).\n\nIn 1998 the BLF expressed outrage at actor Sean Connery being denied a knighthood, claiming that \"normally reliable New Labour sources\" had told them that the reason was his beard. Connery himself claims that his knighthood was delayed because of his support for Scottish independence, while others have pointed out his tax exile status and previous remarks that some complained condoned violence against women. Connery was eventually knighted in 2000.\n\nIn 2000 the BLF joined the anti-capitalist May Day protests with a \"mass beard waggle\", decrying the waste of natural resources involved in producing shaving foam and brushes. It also claimed that Robert Burns had a beard, and that contemporary pictures of him which depict the Scottish poet as clean-shaven were a manufactured image designed to make him more popular to the English. The Burns Federation said that there was no evidence to support Flett's claims, and said that he was \"talking through his beard\".\n\nIn 2002 the BLF called for a semi-boycott of the second Harry Potter film \"Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets\", citing the continued presence of obviously fake beards worn by actors Robbie Coltrane and Richard Harris. Flett claimed that the Christmas season was the worst time of year for beardist taunts, with the Potter movies adding to the ammunition already given by Father Christmas. Acknowledging that the pressure from beardies' children would be too great to consider an outright boycott, he said that supporters were merely being encouraged to hiss and boo at the screen.\n\nIn 2006 the BLF joined the ranks of organisations issuing health advice during the record-breaking heat wave by advising beard-wearers to trim their beards, cover them with handkerchiefs and to keep them cool by placing them \"briefly in the freezer department of a fridge or dipping [them] in a pint of real ale\".\n\nThe BLF boycotted the 2007 World Beard and Moustache Championships as they claimed the event was over obsessive about the cutting and styling of whiskers rather than the pure cultivation of beards. They were also angered by the Handlebar Club who were hosting the event because of their full club membership ban of those who possess a beard of any description. Handlebar moustache wearer and satirist Michael \"Atters\" Attree who was Honorable Chairman and Master of Ceremonies of the 2007 championships (and sits upon the committee of the Handlebar Club) hit back at the BLF claiming that their attitude towards his London-based club's handling of the WBMC was \"Nonsense and utter Poppycock.\" He stated \"One's personal grooming is of the utmost importance if one is to be a gentleman. Often it's the beard clubs that have been the WBMC hosts. We are just showing the beardies how to do it properly\". Commenting on the Socialist aspirations of the BLF Attree stated \"I'd rather be shot by a moustachioed fascist than bored to death by the BLF\".\n\nIn 2007 during the Labour leadership campaign, the Beard Liberation Front held group discussions and decided to endorse Charles Clarke for the position, although he eventually announced he was not standing and would be backing Gordon Brown. Organiser Keith Flett was reported as saying:\n\nIn June 2010 Keith Flett announced that the BLF had set the 2010 Beards and Sandals season to run from 6 June to 31 August.\n\nIn 2000, Frank Dobson was named \"Beard 2000\", amid controversy over his claim that Labour spin doctors had told him to shave off his prize-winning beard for the upcoming elections for Mayor of London. Dobson said that he had told them to \"Stick it up their wickit\".\n\nLabour MP Jeremy Corbyn, who considered his beard \"a form of dissent\" against New Labour, defeated Rolf Harris to win 2001's award.\n\n2002's winner was Education Secretary Charles Clarke, who beat comedian Ricky Gervais and Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams for the title, although Flett suggested that his beard was probably a \"pragmatic\" one to conceal multiple double chins.\n\nThe 2004 Beard of the Year was held jointly by cricketer Andrew Flintoff and NATFHE union leader Paul Mackney, due to the close polling between them.\n\nAfter the English cricket team regained the Ashes for the first time in sixteen years, Andrew Flintoff won the award again in 2005, this time unshared, to go with his BBC Sports Personality of the Year award and his MBE. \"The Lord of the Rings\" director Peter Jackson came second, while former joint-winner Paul Mackney was pushed into third.\n\nEngland's loss of the Ashes the following year did not prevent the 2006 award going to a cricketer for the third year running; this time to England spin-bowler Monty Panesar, who narrowly won with 30 percent of the vote. Cuban President Fidel Castro was second with 29 percent; Paul Mackney was again third, tying with Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams with 10 percent each.\n\nAustralian all-rounder Andrew Symonds and Sri Lankan spinner Muttiah Muralitharan shared the award for Beard of the cricket World Cup 2007, with Panesar the runner-up.\n\nIn 2007 the Beard of the Year was awarded to Robert Plant, the lead singer from Led Zeppelin.\n\nRowan Williams, the Archbishop of Canterbury made a comeback to win 2008's Beard of the Year from Prince William.\n\nIn 2009 Rage Against the Machine vocalist Zach de la Rocha added Beard of the Year to the band's Christmas Number One. He defeated the Slovene philosopher Slavoj Žižek.\n\n2010's Beard of the Year was Sinn Féin President Gerry Adams.\n\nThe winner in 2011 was writer and restaurant critic Jay Rayner.\n\n2012 saw the award presented to journalist and radio broadcaster Robin Lustig.\n\nMichael Eavis, who organises the Glastonbury Festival was awarded Beard of the Noughties, beating former Cuban leader Fidel Castro. Keith Flett said \"Both Eavis and Castro have taken a back seat towards the end of the decade but their beards remain iconic. Michael Eavis is a true hirsute icon of the Noughties and he beat Castro to the accolade by the merest whisker.\"\n\nIn 2013 Gareth Malone won the Beard of the Year. He beat John Hurt, Geoff Parling, and Jeremy Paxman, who made it to the shortlist, but fell outside the top 3, despite having one of the most discussed beards of 2013.\n\n2013 also saw the first St. David's Day Beard of Wales award, which went to Adam Jones. Leigh Halfpenny won in 2014, and Joe Ledley won in 2016. 2015 was won jointly by brewer Toby Copestake and musician Chris Fox. The latter also came second in 2016 and won outright in 2017.\n\nIn March 2012, Keith Flett corresponded with Zorko Sirotić, Croatian visual artist, and appointed him head of the BLF's Central and Eastern Europe unit. Flett announced this via his Twitter page on 9 March.\n\n", "id": "7734583", "categories": ["Organizations established in 1995", "1995 establishments in the United Kingdom", "Facial hair"], "title": "Beard Liberation Front"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734628", "text": "It's Too Late (Evermore song)\n\n\"It's Too Late\" is the lead single by rock band, Evermore, taken from their debut album \"Dreams\" (September 2004). The track was written by the group's three New Zealand-raised brothers: Dann (backing vocals, drums), Jon (lead vocals, lead guitar), and Peter Hume (backing vocals, piano, keyboards, bass guitar). It was produced by John Alagía and released on 2 August 2004, which reached No. 16 on the ARIA Singles Chart in their adopted country of Australia. The song features on as a bonus Australian release only track. It also features on the Australian and New Zealand editions of \"SingStar Pop\". In Australia, the song was listed at No. 14 on Triple J's Hottest 100 of 2004.\n\nAn alternate version, the Dirty South Remix, \"It's Too Late (Ride On)\", was issued as a single on 7 August 2006. It reached the top 100 in Belgium, France and The Netherlands.\n\n\"It's Too Late\" is the lead single from Evermore's debut album, \"Dreams\" (September 2004), which peaked at No. 16 on the ARIA Singles Chart. The group consists of three New Zealand-raised brothers, Jon (lead vocals, lead guitar), Peter (backing vocals, piano, keyboards, bass guitar), and Dann Hume (backing vocals, drums) – they co-wrote \"It's Too Late\". Evermore worked with producers Barrett Jones (Nirvana, Foo Fighters, Whiskeytown) and (Dave Matthews Band, John Mayer).\n\nTwo more singles were released from the album: \"For One Day\" (February 2005), and \"Come to Nothing\" (May) – which charted in the top 100. All three singles were featured on the New Zealand and Australian promos for the United States TV program, \"The O.C.\", with \"It's Too Late\" ultimately appearing on the show. On 7 August 2006 a remixed version of \"It's Too Late\" by Dirty South (aka Dragan Roganović), titled \"It's Too Late (Ride on)\", was released, and appeared on numerous compilation albums. The remixed single reached the top 100 in Belgium, France and The Netherlands.\n", "id": "7734628", "categories": ["Debut singles", "Evermore (band) songs", "2006 singles", "East West Records singles", "2004 singles"], "title": "It's Too Late (Evermore song)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734670", "text": "Remilitarization of the Rhineland\n\nThe remilitarization of the Rhineland () by the German Army began on 7 March 1936 when German military forces entered the Rhineland. This was significant because it violated the terms of the Treaty of Versailles and the Locarno Treaties, marking the first time since the end of World War I that German troops had been in this region. The remilitarization changed the balance of power in Europe from France and its allies towards Germany, making it possible for Germany to pursue a policy of aggression in Western Europe that the demilitarized status of the Rhineland had blocked until then.\n\nUnder Articles 42, 43 and 44 of the 1919 Treaty of Versailles—imposed on Germany by the Allies after the Great War—Germany was \"forbidden to maintain or construct any fortification either on the Left bank of the Rhine or on the Right bank to the west of a line drawn fifty kilometers to the East of the Rhine\". If a violation \"in any manner whatsoever\" of this Article took place, this \"shall be regarded as committing a hostile act...and as calculated to disturb the peace of the world\".\nThe Locarno Treaties, signed in October 1925 by Germany, France, Italy and Britain, stated that the Rhineland should continue its demilitarized status permanently. Locarno was regarded as important as it was a voluntary German acceptance of the Rhineland's demilitarized status as opposed to the \"diktat\" (dictate) of Versailles. Under the terms of Locarno, Britain and Italy guaranteed the Franco-German border and the continued demilitarized status of the Rhineland against a \"flagrant violation\" without however defining what constituted a \"flagrant violation\". Under the terms of Locarno, if Germany should attempt to attack France, then Britain and Italy were obliged to go to France's aid and likewise, if France should attack Germany, then Britain and Italy would be obliged to Germany's aid. The American historian Gerhard Weinberg called the demilitarized status of the Rhineland the \"single most important guarantee of peace in Europe\" as it made it impossible for Germany to attack its neighbors in the West and as the demilitarized zone rendered Germany defenseless in the West, impossible to attack its neighbors in the East as it left Germany open to a devastating French offensive if the \"Reich\" tried to invade any of the states guaranteed by the French alliance system in Eastern Europe, the so-called \"Cordon sanitaire\".\n\nThe Versailles Treaty also stipulated that Allied military forces would withdraw from the Rhineland by 1935. However, the German Foreign Minister Gustav Stresemann announced in 1929 that Germany would not ratify the 1928 Young Plan for continuing to pay reparations unless the Allies agreed to leave the Rhineland in 1930. The British delegation at the Hague Conference on German reparations in 1929 proposed that reparations paid by Germany be reduced and that British and French forces should evacuate the Rhineland. The last British soldiers left in late 1929 and the last French soldiers left in June 1930. As long as the French continued to occupy the Rhineland, the Rhineland functioned as a form of \"collateral\" under which the French could respond to any German attempt at overt rearmament by annexing the Rhineland. Once the last French soldiers left the Rhineland in June 1930, it could no longer play its \"collateral\" role, thus opening the door for German rearmament. The French decision to build the Maginot Line in 1929 was a tacit French admission that it was only a matter of time before German rearmament on a massive scale would begin sometime in the 1930s and that the Rhineland was going to be remilitarized sooner or later. Intelligence from the \"Deuxième Bureau\" indicated that Germany had been violating Versailles continuously all through the 1920s with the considerable help of the Soviet Union, and with the French troops out of the Rhineland, it could only be expected that Germany would become more open about violating Versailles. The Maginot Line in its turn lessened the importance of the Rhineland's demilitarized status from a French security viewpoint.\n\nThe foreign policy of Fascist Italy was to maintain an \"equidistant\" stance from all the major powers in order to exercise \"determinant weight\", which by whatever power Italy chose to align with would decisively change the balance of power in Europe, and the price of such an alignment would be support for Italian ambitions in Europe and/or Africa. \n\nThe foreign policy goal of the Soviet Union was set forth by Joseph Stalin in a speech on 19 January 1925 that if another world war broke out between the capitalist states that: \"We will enter the fray at the end, throwing our critical weight onto the scale, a weight that should prove to be decisive\". To promote this goal which would lead to the global triumph of Communism, the Soviet Union tended to support German efforts to challenge the Versailles system by assisting German secret rearmament, a policy that caused much tension with France. An additional problem in Franco-Soviet relations was the Russian debt issue. Before 1917, the French had been by far the largest investors in Imperial Russia, and the largest buyers of Russian debt, so the decision by Lenin in 1918 to repudiate all debts and to confiscate all private property, whether it be owned by Russians or by foreigners, had hurt the world of French business and finance quite badly. The question of the Russian debt repudiation and compensation for French businesses affected by Soviet nationalisation policies poisoned Franco-Soviet relations until the early 1930s. \n\nThe centerpiece of interwar French diplomacy had been the \"cordon sanitaire\" in Eastern Europe, which was intended to keep both the Soviet Union and Germany out of Eastern Europe. To this end, France had signed treaties of alliance with Poland in 1921, Czechoslovakia in 1924, Romania in 1926 and Yugoslavia in 1927. The \"cordon sanitaire\" states were intended as a collective replacement for Imperial Russia as France's chief eastern ally. The states of the \"cordon sanitaire\" emerged as an area of French political, military, economic and cultural influence. \n\nAs regards Germany, it had always been assumed by the states of the \"cordon sanitaire\" that if Germany should attack any of them, France would respond by beginning an offensive into western Germany. Long before 1933, German military and diplomatic elites had regarded the Rhineland's demilitarized status as only temporary, and planned to remilitarize the Rhineland at the first favorable diplomatic opportunity. In December 1918, at a meeting of Germany's leading generals (the German Army functioned as a \"state within the state\"), it had decided that the chief aim would be to rebuild German military power to launch a new world war to win the \"world power status\" that the \"Reich\" had sought, but failed to win in the last war. All through the 1920s and the early 1930s, the \"Reichswehr\" had been developing plans for a war to destroy France and its ally Poland, which necessarily presumed remilitarization of the Rhineland. Steps were taken by the German government to prepare for the remilitarization, such as keeping former barracks in a good state of repair, hiding military materials in secret depots, and building customs and fire watch towers that could be easily converted into observation and machine gun posts along the frontier.\n\nFrom 1919 to 1932, British defense spending was based upon the Ten Year Rule, which assumed that there was to be no major war for the next ten years, a policy that led to the British military being cut to the bone. Amongst British decision-makers, the idea of the \"continental commitment\" of sending a large army to fight on the European mainland against Germany was never explicitly rejected, but was not favored. The memory of the heavy losses taken in the Great War had led many to see the \"continental commitment\" of 1914 as a serious mistake. For most of the inter-war period, the British were extremely reluctant to make security commitments in Eastern Europe, regarding the region as too unstable and likely to embroil Britain in unwanted wars. At most, Britain was willing to make only limited security commitments in Western Europe, and even then tried to avoid the \"continental commitment\" as much as possible. In 1925, the British Foreign Secretary, Sir Austen Chamberlain had famously stated in public at the Locarno conference that the Polish Corridor was \"not worth the bones of a single British grenadier\". As such, Chamberlain declared that Britain would not guarantee the German-Polish border on the grounds that the Polish Corridor should be returned to Germany. That the British did not take even their Locarno commitments seriously could be seen in Whitehall's prohibition of the British military chiefs' holding staff talks with German, French and Italian militaries about what to do if a \"flagrant violation\" of Locarno occurred. In general, for most of the 1920s–30s, British foreign policy was based upon appeasement, under which the international system established by Versailles would be revised in Germany's favor, within limits in order to win German acceptance of that international order, and thereby ensure the peace. One of the main British aims at Locarno was to create a situation where Germany could pursue territorial revisionism in Eastern Europe peacefully. The British viewpoint was that if Franco-German relations improved, France would gradually abandon the \"cordon sanitaire\". \n\nOnce France had abandoned its allies in Eastern Europe as the price of better relations with the \"Reich\", the Poles and Czechoslovaks would be forced to adjust to German demands, and would peacefully hand over the territories claimed by Germany such as the Sudetenland, the Polish Corridor and the Free City of Danzig (modern Gdańsk, Poland). British policy-makers tended to exaggerate French power with the normally Francophile Sir Robert \"Van\" Vansittart, the Permanent Under-Secretary at the Foreign Office writing in 1931 that Britain was faced with an \"unbearable\" French domination of Europe, and what was needed was a revival of German power to counterbalance French power. French economic and demographic weaknesses in the face of Germany's strengths such as the \"Reich\"'s far larger population and economy together with the fact that much of France had been devastated by World War I while Germany had escaped mostly undamaged were little appreciated in Whitehall.\n\nIn March 1933, the German Defence Minister, General Werner von Blomberg had plans drawn up for remilitarization. Blomberg starting in the fall of 1933 had a number of the para-military \"Landspolizei\" units in the Rhineland given secret military training and equipped with military weapons in order to prepare for remilitarization. General Ludwig Beck's memo of March 1935 on the need for Germany to secure \"Lebensraum\" (living space) in Eastern Europe had accepted that remilitarization should take place as soon it was diplomatically possible. In general, it was believed by German military, diplomatic and political elites that it would not be possible to remiltarize before 1937.\n\nThe change of regime in Germany in 1933 did cause alarm in London, but there was considerable uncertainty about what Hitler's long term intentions were. This uncertainty over what Hitler's ultimate intentions in foreign policy were was to color much of British policy towards Germany until 1939. British decision-makers could never quite decide if Hitler was merely seeking the acceptable goal (to the British) of revising Versailles or the unacceptable goal of seeking to dominate Europe. British policy towards Germany was a dual-track policy of seeking a \"general settlement\" with the \"Reich\" in which the \"legitimate\" German complaints about the Versailles treaty would be addressed in Germany's favor while at the same time pursuing rearmament to negotiate with Germany from a position of strength, to deter Hitler from choosing war as an option, and in a worst-case scenario ensure that Britain was prepared if Hitler really did want to conquer Europe. In February 1934, a secret report by the Defence Requirements Committee identified Germany as the \"ultimate potential enemy\", which British rearmament was to be directed against. Although the possibility of German bombing attacks against British cities increased the importance of having a friendly power on the other side of the English Channel, many British decision-makers were cool, if not downright hostile, towards the idea of the \"continental commitment\". When British rearmament began in 1934, the Army received the lowest priority in terms of funding after the air force and the navy, in part to rule out the \"continental commitment\" as an option. Increasingly, decision-makers came to favor the idea of \"limited liability\", under which if the \"continental commitment\" were to be made, Britain should only send the smallest possible expeditionary force to Europe, and reserve its main efforts towards the war in the air and on the sea. Britain's refusal to make the \"continental commitment\" on the same scale as World War I caused tensions with the French, who believed that it would be impossible to defeat Germany without another large-scale \"continental commitment\", and deeply disliked the idea that they should do the bulk of the fighting on the land.\n\nStarting in 1934, the French Foreign Minister Louis Barthou decided to put an end to any potential German aggression by building a network of alliances intended to encircle Germany, and made overtures to the Soviet Union and Italy. Until 1933, the Soviet Union had supported German efforts to challenge the Versailles system, but the strident anti-communism of the National Socialist regime together with its claim for \"Lebensraum\" led the Soviets change positions on the question of maintaining the Versailles system. In September 1933, the Soviet Union ended its secret support for German rearmament, which had started in 1921. Under the guise of collective security, the Soviet Foreign Commissar Maxim Litvinov started to praise the Versailles system, which until then the Soviet leaders had denounced as a capitalist plot to \"enslave\" Germany. \n\nStarting in the 1920s, Benito Mussolini had subsidized the right-wing \"Heimwehr\" (\"Home Defense\") movement in Austria, and after the ultra-conservative Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss had seized dictatorial power in March 1933, Austria had fallen within the Italian sphere of influence. The terrorist campaign mounted by Austrian Nazis with the open support of Germany against the Dollfuss regime with the aim of overthrowing Dollfuss to achieve an \"Anschluss\" caused considerable tensions between Rome and Berlin. Mussolini had warned Hitler several times that Austria was within the Italian sphere of influence, not the German, and to cease trying to overthrow his protégé Dollfuss. On 25 July 1934 there had occurred the July Putsch in Vienna that saw Dollfuss assassinated by the Austrian SS, and an announcement by the Austrian Nazis that the \"Anschluss\" was at hand. At the same time that Austrian Nazis attempted to seize power all over Austria, the SS Austrian Legion based in Bavaria began to attack frontier posts along the German-Austrian border in what looked like the beginning of an invasion. In response, Mussolini had mobilized the Italian Army, concentrated several divisions at the Brenner Pass, and warned Hitler that Italy would go to war with Germany if he tried to follow up the \"putsch\" by invading Austria. The Austrian-born Hitler, although deeply offended by Mussolini's blunt assertions that his birthplace was within the sphere of influence of any power other than Germany, nevertheless realized he was in no position to do anything except to beat a humiliating retreat. To his disgust, the German Fuhrer had to disallow the \"Putsch\" he had ordered and not follow it up by invading Austria while the Austrian government crushed the \"Putsch\" by the Austrian Nazis. \n\nAfter Barthou was assassinated on 9 October 1934, his work in trying to build anti-German alliances with the Soviet Union and Italy was continued by Pierre Laval. On 7 January 1935 during a summit in Rome, Laval essentially told Mussolini that he had a \"free hand\" in the Horn of Africa, and France would not oppose an Italian invasion of Ethiopia. On 14 April 1935, Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald of Great Britain, Premier Pierre Laval of France and Prime Minister Benito Mussolini met in Stresa to form the Stresa Front to oppose any further German violations of Versailles following the German statement in March 1935 that Germany would no longer abide by Parts V or VI of the Treaty of Versailles. In the spring of 1935, joint staff talks had begun between France and Italy with the aim of forming an anti-German military alliance. On 2 May 1935, Laval travelled to Moscow, where he a signed a treaty of alliance with Soviet Union. At once, the German government began a violent press campaign against the Franco-Soviet pact, claiming it was a violation of Locarno that was an immense danger for the \"Reich\".\n\nIn his \"peace speech\" of May 21, 1935, Adolf Hitler stated \"In particular, they [the Germans] will uphold and fulfill all obligations arising out of the Locarno Treaty, so long as the other parties are on their side ready to stand by that pact\". That line in Hitler's speech was written by his foreign minister, Baron Konstantin von Neurath who wished to reassure foreign leaders who felt threatened by Germany's denunciation in March 1935 of Part V of the Treaty of Versailles, which had disarmed Germany. At the same time, Neurath wanted to provide an opening for the eventual remilitarization of the Rhineland, hence the conditional hedging of the promise to obey Locarno only as long as other powers did. Hitler always took the line that Germany did not consider itself bound by the \"Diktat\" of Versailles, but that Germany would respect any treaty that it willingly signed such as Locarno, under which Germany had promised to keep the Rhineland demilitarized forever; hence Hitler always promised during his \"peace speeches\" to obey Locarno as opposed to Versailles.\n\nOn 7 June 1935, MacDonald resigned as British Prime Minister due to ailing health and was replaced by Stanley Baldwin of the Conservative Party; the leadership change did not affect British foreign policy in any meaningful way. On October 3, 1935, Italy invaded Ethiopia, and thus began the Abyssinia Crisis. Under strong pressure from a British public opinion, which was very much in favor of collective security, the British government took the lead in pressing the League of Nations for sanctions against Italy. The decision of the British Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin to take a strong line in favor of collective security was mostly motivated by domestic politics. Having just won an election on 14 November 1935 on the platform of upholding collective security, the Baldwin government pressed very strongly for sanctions against Italy for invading Ethiopia. The League Assembly voted for a British motion to impose sanctions on Italy with immediate effect on 18 November 1935.\n\nThe British line that collective security must be upheld with regard to Ethiopia caused considerable tensions between Paris and London, with the French taking the viewpoint that Hitler, not Mussolini, was the real danger to the peace, and that if the price of continuing Stresa Front was accepting the conquest of Ethiopia, it was worth paying. The British historian Correlli Barnett wrote for Laval: \"...all that really mattered was Nazi Germany. His eyes were on the demilitarised zone of the Rhineland; his thoughts on the Locarno guarantees. To estrange Italy, one of the Locarno powers, over such a question as Abyssinia did not appeal to Laval's Auvergnat peasant mind\". With Paris and London openly at loggerheads over the correct response to Italian invasion of Ethiopia, to say nothing of the very public rift between Rome and London, an opening was seen in Germany for remilitarization of the Rhineland. The Anglo-Italian dispute placed the French in an uncomfortable position. On one hand, Britain's repeated refusal to make the \"continental commitment\" increased the value to the French of Italy as the only other nation in Western Europe capable of fielding a large army against Germany. But on the other hand, the British economy was far larger than the Italian economy, which thus meant from the long-term French perspective, Britain was a much better ally as Britain had vastly more economic staying power than Italy for what was assumed would be another \"guerre de la longue durée\" (\"war of the long duration\", i.e. a long war against Germany). The American historian Zach Shore wrote that: \"...French leaders found themselves in the awkward position of seeking the military co-operation of two incompatible allies. Since Italy and Britain had clashing interests in the Mediterranean, France could not ally with one without alienating the other\". To avoid a total rupture with Britain, France did not use its veto power as a member of the League Council, and instead voted for the sanctions. But Laval did use the threat of a French veto to water down the sanctions, and to have such items such as oil and coal, which might have crippled Italy, removed from the sanctions list. Nonetheless, Mussolini felt betrayed by his French friends, and next to Britain, France was the nation that he was most angry with for the sanctions. Despite all of Mussolini's outrage about the sanctions, they were largely ineffective. The United States and Germany-both of which were not members of the League-chose not to abide by the sanctions, and as result, American and German businesses supplied Italy with all of the goods that League had placed on the sanctions list, making the sanctions more of an annoyance than a problem for the Italians.\n\nItalian cryptographers had broken the British naval and diplomatic codes in the early 1930s; consequently, Mussolini knew very well that although Britain might threaten war through such moves like reinforcing the Mediterranean Fleet in September 1935, the British had already decided in advance that they would never go to war for Ethiopia. Armed with this knowledge, Mussolini felt free to engage in all sorts of wild threats of war against Britain from late 1935 onwards, declaring at one point that he rather see the entire world \"go up in a blaze\" than stop his invasion of Ethiopia. Mussolini's frequent threats to destroy the British Empire if the British continued to oppose his Ethiopian war had created the impression in late 1935-early 1936 that Britain and Italy were on the verge of war.\n\nIn late 1935, Neurath started rumours that Germany was considering remilitarizing the Rhineland in response to the Franco-Soviet pact of May 1935, which Neurath insisted was a violation of Locarno that menaced Germany. At the same time, Neurath ordered German diplomats to start drawing up legal briefs justifying remilitarization of the Rhineland under the grounds that the Franco-Soviet pact violated Locarno. In doing so, Neurath was acting without orders from Hitler, but in the expectation that time was ripe for remilitarization due to the crisis in Anglo-Italian relations caused by the Italo-Ethiopian War. To resolve the Abyssinia Crisis, Robert Vansittart, the Permanent Undersecretary at the British Foreign Office proposed to the Foreign Secretary Samuel Hoare what came to be known as the Hoare–Laval plan under which half of Ethiopia would be given to Italy with the rest nominally independent under the Emperor Haile Selassie. Vansittart who was a passionate Francophile and an equally ardent Germanophobe saw Germany as the real danger, and wanted to sacrifice Ethiopia for the sake of maintaining the Stresa Front. Vansittart had a powerful ally in Hankey, a proponent of \"realpolitik\" who saw the entire idea of imposing sanctions on Italy as so much folly. Persuaded of the merits of Vansittart's approach, Hoare travelled to Paris to meet with Laval, who agreed to the plan. However, Alexis St. Leger, the General Secretary at the Quai d'Orsay-who unusually amongst the generally pro-Italian French officials, happened to have a visceral dislike of Fascist Italy-and he decided to sabotage the Hoare-Laval plan by leaking it to the French press. St. Leger was by all accounts a \"rather strange\" character who sometimes chose to undercut policy initiatives that he disapproved of. In a strange asymmetry, the Francophile Vansittart at the Foreign Office was in favor the French approach that it was worth letting Italy conquer Ethiopia in order to continue the Stresa Front, whereas the Anglophile St. Leger at the Quai d'Orsay was in favor of the British approach of upholding collective security, even at the risk of damaging the Stresa Front. When the news of the Hoare-Laval plan to essentially reward Mussolini reached Britain, it caused such an uproar that Hoare had to resign in disgrace (to be replaced by Anthony Eden) and the newly elected Baldwin government was almost toppled by a backbenchers' revolt. Baldwin lied to the House of Commons by claiming quite falsely that the cabinet was unaware of the Hoare-Laval plan, and that Hoare was a rogue minister acting on his own. In France, public opinion was just as outraged by the Hoare-Laval plan as British public opinion was. Laval's policy of internal devaluation of forcing deflation on the French economy in order to increase French exports to combat the Great Depression had already made him extremely unpopular, and the Hoare-Laval plan further damaged his reputation. The Chamber of Deputies debated the plan on 27 and 28 December, the Popular Front condemned it, with Léon Blum telling Laval: \"You have tried to give and to keep. You wanted to have your cake and eat it. You cancelled your words by your deeds and your deeds by your words. You have debased everything by fixing, intrigue and slickness … Not sensitive enough to the importance of great moral issues, you have reduced everything to the level of your petty methods\". \n\nMussolini for his part rejected the Hoare-Laval plan, saying he wanted to subject all of Ethiopia, not just half. Following the fiasco of the Hoare-Laval plan, the British government resumed its previous policy of imposing sanctions against Italy in a half-hearted way, which in turn imposed serious strains on relations with both Paris and especially Rome. Given the provocative Italian attitude, Britain wanted to begin staff talks with France for a possible war with Italy. On 13 December 1935, Neurath told the British ambassador Sir Eric Phipps that Berlin regarded any Anglo-French staff talks without Germany – even if directed only against Italy – as a violation of Locarno that would force Germany to remilitarize the Rhineland. Through Italo-German relations were quite unfriendly in 1935, Germany had been an outspoken supporter of the Italian invasion of Ethiopia, and offered Mussolini a benevolent neutrality. Under the banner of white supremacy and fascism, Hitler came out strongly for the Italian invasion, and he made a point of shipping the Italians various raw materials and weapons, which the League of Nations sanctions had forbidden Italy. Hitler's support for the Italian aggression won him much goodwill in Rome. By contrast, Laval's pro-Italian intrigues and his efforts to sabotage the British-led effort to impose sanctions on Italy created a lasting climate of distrust between the British and the French.\n\nThe British Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden anticipated that by 1940 Germany might be persuaded to return to the League of Nations, accept arms limitations, and renounce her territorial claims in Europe in exchange for remilitarization of the Rhineland, return of the former German African colonies and German \"economic priority along the Danube\" The Foreign Office's Ralph Wigram advised that Germany should be permitted to remilitarise the Rhineland in exchange for an \"air pact\" outlawing bombing and a German promise not to use force to change their borders. However, 'Wigram did not succeed in convincing his colleagues or cabinet ministers'. Eden's goal has been defined as that of a \"general settlement\", which sought \"a return to the normality of the twenties and the creation of conditions in which Hitler could behave like Stresemann.\" (Gustav Stresemann German chancellor, foreign minister and democrat during the Weimar Republic) On 16 January 1936, the French Premier Pierre Laval submitted the Franco-Soviet Pact to the Chamber of Deputies for ratification. In January 1936, during his visit to London to attend the funeral of King George V, Neurath told Eden: \"If, however, the other signatories or guarantors of the Locarno Pact should conclude bilateral agreements contrary to the spirit of Locarno Pact, we should be compelled to reconsider our attitude.\" Eden's response to Neurath's veiled threat that Germany would remilitarize the Rhineland if the French National Assembly ratified the Franco-Soviet pact convinced Neurath that if Germany remilitarized, then Britain would take Germany's side against France. There was a clause in the Locarno treaty calling for binding international arbitration if the one of the signatory powers signed a treaty that the other powers considered to be incompatible with Locarno. Both Neurath and his State Secretary Prince Bernhard von Bülow professed to every foreign diplomat with whom they spoke that the Franco-Soviet Pact was a violation of Locarno, but at the same time both strongly advised Hitler not to seek international arbitration in order to determine whether the Franco-Soviet pact really was a violation of Locarno. Seeking international arbitration was a \"lose-lose\" situation for Germany: on the one hand, if it were ruled that the Franco-Soviet pact was incompatible with Locarno, then the French would have to abandon the pact, thereby depriving Germany of an excuse to remilitarize; on the other hand, if it were ruled that Franco-Soviet pact was compatible with Locarno, Germany would likewise have no excuse for remilitarization. Although Neurath indicated several times in press conferences in early 1936 that Germany was planning on using the arbitration clause in Locarno in order to help convince public opinion abroad that the Franco-Soviet pact was a violation of Locarno, the German government never invoked the arbitration clause.\n\nAt the same time, Neurath received an intelligence report on 10 January 1936 from Gottfried Aschmann, the Chief of the \"Auswärtiges Amt\"'s Press Division, who during a visit to Paris in early January 1936 had talked to a minor French politician named Jean Montiny who was a close friend of Premier Laval, who had frankly mentioned that France's economic problems had retarded French military modernization and that France would do nothing if Germany remilitarized the Rhineland. . Neurath did not pass on Aschmann's report to Hitler, but he placed a high value upon it. Neurath was seeking to improve his position within the Nazi regime; by repeatedly assuring Hitler during the Rhineland crisis that the French would do nothing without telling Hitler the source of his self-assurance, Neurath came across as a diplomat blessed with an uncanny intuition, something that improved his standing with Hitler. Traditionally in Germany the conduct of foreign policy had been the work of the \"Auswärtiges Amt\" (Foreign Office), but starting in 1933 Neurath had been faced with the threat of Nazi \"interlopers in diplomacy\" as various NSDAP agencies started to conduct their own foreign policies independent of and often against the \"Auswärtiges Amt\". The most serious of the \"interlopers in diplomacy\" was the \"Dienststelle Ribbentrop\", a sort of alternative foreign ministry loosely linked to the NSDAP headed by Joachim von Ribbentrop which aggressively sought to undercut the work of the \"Auswärtiges Amt\" at every turn. Further exacerbating the rivalry between the \"Dienststelle Ribbentrop\" and the \"Auswärtiges Amt\" was the fact that Neurath and Ribbentrop utterly hated one another, with Ribbentrop making no secret of his belief that he would be a much better foreign minister than Neurath, whereas Neurath viewed Ribbentrop as a hopelessly inept amateur diplomat meddling in matters that did not concern him. \n\nDuring January 1936, the German Chancellor and \"Führer\" Adolf Hitler decided to reoccupy the Rhineland. Originally Hitler had planned to remilitarize the Rhineland in 1937, but chose in early 1936 to move re-militarization forward by a year for several reasons, namely: the ratification by the French National Assembly of the Franco-Soviet pact of 1935 allowed him to present his coup both at home and abroad as a defensive move against Franco-Soviet \"encirclement\"; the expectation that France would be better armed in 1937; the government in Paris had just fallen and a caretaker government was in charge; economic problems at home required a foreign policy success to restore the regime's popularity; the Italo-Ethiopian War, which had set Britain against Italy, had effectively broken up the Stresa Front; and apparently because Hitler simply did not feel like waiting an extra year. In his biography of Hitler, the British historian Sir Ian Kershaw argued that the primary reasons for the decision to remilitarize in 1936 as opposed to 1937 were Hitler's preference for dramatic unilateral coups to obtain what could easily be achieved via quiet talks, and Hitler's need for a foreign policy triumph to distract public attention from the major economic crisis that was gripping Germany in 1935–36.\n\nDuring a meeting between Prince Bernhard von Bülow, the State Secretary at the \"Auswärtiges Amt\" (who is not to be confused with his more famous uncle Chancellor Bernhard von Bülow) and the French Ambassador André François-Poncet on 13 January 1936, where Bülow handed François-Poncet yet another note protesting against the Franco-Soviet pact, François-Poncet accused Bülow to his face of seeking any excuse, no matter how bizarre, strange or implausible to send troops back into the Rhineland. On 15 January 1936, a top-secret NKVD report was sent to Joseph Stalin entitled \"Summary of Military and Political Intelligence on Germany\", which reported – based on statements from various diplomats in the \"Auswärtiges Amt\" – that Germany was planning on remilitarizing the Rhineland in the near-future. The same summary quoted Bülow as saying that if Britain and France made any sort of agreement concerning military co-operation that did not involve Germany: \"We would view this as a violation of Locarno, and if we are not dragged into participating in negotiations, we will not consider ourselves bound by Locarno obligations concerning the preservation of the Rhine demilitarized zone\". The Soviet report warning of German plans for remilitarization was not passed on to either the British or French governments.\n\nOn 17 January 1936 Benito Mussolini – who was angry about the League of Nations sanctions applied against his country for aggression against Ethiopia – told the German Ambassador in Rome, Ulrich von Hassell, that he wanted to see an Austro-German agreement \"which would in practice bring Austria into Germany's wake, so that she could pursue no other foreign policy than one parallel with Germany. If Austria, as a formally independent state, were thus in practice to become a German satellite, he would have no objection\". \n\nBy recognizing that Austria was within the German sphere of influence, Mussolini had removed the principal problem in Italo-German relations. Italo-German relations had been quite bad since mid-1933, and especially since the July Putsch of 1934, so Mussolini's remarks to Hassell in early 1936 indicating that he wanted a rapprochement with Germany were considered extremely significant in Berlin. In another meeting, Mussolini told Hassell that he regarded the Stresa Front of 1935 as \"dead\", and that Italy would do nothing to uphold Locarno should Germany violate it. Initially German officials did not believe in Mussolini's desire for a rapprochement, but after Hitler sent Hans Frank on a secret visit to Rome carrying a message from the \"Führer\" about Germany's support for Italy's actions in the conquest of Ethiopia, Italo-German relations improved markedly. On 24 January, the very unpopular Laval resigned as premier rather than be defeated on a motion of no-confidence in the National Assembly as the Radical Socialists decided to join the left-wing Popular Front, thereby ensuring an anti-Laval majority in the Chamber of Deputies. A caretaker government was formed in Paris led by Albert Sarraut until new elections could be held. The Sarraut cabinet was a mixture of men of the right like Georges Mandel, the center like Georges Bonnet and the left like Joseph Paul-Boncour which made it almost impossible for the cabinet to make decisions. Immediately, the Sarraut government came into conflict with Britain as Eden started to press the League for oil sanctions against Italy, something that the French were completely opposed to, and threatened to veto.\n\nOn 11 February 1936, the new French Premier Albert Sarraut affirmed that his government would work for the ratification of the Franco-Soviet pact. On February 12, 1936, Hitler met with Neurath and his Ambassador-at-Large Joachim von Ribbentrop to ask their opinion of the likely foreign reaction to remilitarization. Neurath supported remiltarization, but argued that Germany should negotiate more before doing so whereas Ribbentrop argued for unilateral remilitarization at once. Ribbentrop told Hitler that if France went to war in response to German remiltarization, then Britain would go to war with France, an assessment of the situation with which Neurath did not agree, but one that encouraged Hitler to proceed with remiltarization.\n\nOn the 12th of February Hitler informed his War Minister, Field Marshal Werner von Blomberg, of his intentions and asked the head of the Army, General Werner von Fritsch, how long it would take to transport a few infantry battalions and an artillery battery into the Rhineland. Fritsch answered that it would take three days organization but he was in favour of negotiation, as he believed that the German Army was in no state for armed combat with the French Army. The Chief of the General Staff, General Ludwig Beck warned Hitler that the German Army would be unable to successfully defend Germany against a possible retaliatory French attack. Hitler reassured Fritsch that he would withdraw his forces if there were a French countermove. Weinberg wrote that:\"German military plans provided for small German units to move into the Rhineland, joining the local militarized police (\"Landespolizei\") and staging a fighting withdrawal if there were a military counter-action from the West. The story that the Germans had orders to withdraw if France moved against them is partially correct, but essentially misleading; the withdrawal was to be a tactical defensive move, not a return to the earlier position. The possibility of a war was thus accepted by Hitler, but he clearly did not think the contingency very likely.\" The operation was codenamed Winter Exercise. \n\nUnknown to Hitler, on 14 February Eden had written to the Quai d'Orsay stating that Britain and France should \"enter betimes into negotiations...for the surrender on conditions of our rights in the zone while such surrender still has got a bargaining value\". Eden wrote to the British cabinet that the end of the demilitarized zone would \"not merely change local military values, but is likely to lead to far-reaching political repercussions of a kind which will further weaken France's influence in Central and Eastern Europe\". In February 1936, the \"Deuxième Bureau\" started to submit reports suggesting that Germany was planning on sending troops into the Rhineland in the very near-future. Because François-Poncet's reports from Berlin indicated that the German economic situation was quite precarious, it was felt in Paris that sanctions against Germany could be quite devastating, and might even lead to the collapse of the Nazi regime.\n\nAlong with Ribbentrop and Neurath, Hitler discussed the planned remilitarization in detail with War Minister General Werner von Blomberg, Chief of General Staff General Ludwig Beck, Hermann Göring, Army Commander-in-Chief General Werner von Fritsch and Ulrich von Hassell. Ribbentrop and Blomberg were in favor; Beck and Fritsch were opposed and Neurath and Hassell were supportive, but argued that there was no real need to act now as quiet diplomacy would soon ensure remilitarization. That Hitler was in close and regular contact with Hassell, the ambassador to Italy all through February and early March, showed how much importance Hitler attached to Italy. Of the three leaders of the Stresa front, Mussolini was easily the one Hitler most respected, and so Hitler viewed Italy as the key, taking the view that if Mussolini decided to oppose the remilitarization, then Britain and France would follow. Not withstanding Mussolini's remarks in January, Hitler was still not convinced of Italian support, and ordered Hassell to find out Mussolini's attitude. On 22 February, Hassell wrote in his diary that the pending ratification of the Franco-Soviet pact was just a pretext, writing: \"it was quite clear that he [Hitler] really wanted the ratification to use as a platform for his action\". That same day, Hassell held a meeting with Mussolini, where \"Il Duce\" stated if oil sanctions were applied against Italy, he would \"make Locarno disappear of its own accord\", and that anyhow Italy would not act if German troops were to enter the Rhineland. \n\nAt the same time, Neurath started preparing elaborate documents justifying remilitarization as a response forced on Germany by the Franco-Soviet pact, and advised Hitler to keep the number of troops sent into the Rhineland very small so to allow the Germans to claim that they had not committed a \"flagrant violation\" of Locarno (both Britain and Italy were only committed to offering a military response to a \"flagrant violation\"). In the statement justifying remilitarization that Neurath prepared for the foreign press, the German move was portrayed as something forced on a reluctant Germany by ratification of the Franco-Soviet pact, and strongly hinted that Germany would return to the League of Nations if remilitarization was accepted. After meeting with Hitler on 18 February, Baron von Neurath expressed the viewpoint \"for Hitler in the first instance domestic motives were decisive\".\n\nAt the same time that Frank was visiting Rome, Göring had been dispatched to Warsaw to meet the Polish Foreign Minister Colonel Józef Beck and to ask the Poles to remain neutral if France decided on war in response to the remilitarization of the Rhineland. Colonel Beck believed that the French would do nothing if Germany remilitarized the Rhineland, and thus could assure those in the Polish government who wished for Poland to stay close to its traditional ally France that Poland would act if France did while at the same time telling Göring that he wanted closer German-Polish relations and would do nothing in the event of remilitarization.\n\nOn 13 February 1936 during a meeting with Prince Bismarck of the German Embassy in London, Ralph Wigram, the head of the Central Department of the British Foreign Office stated that the British government (whose Prime Minister from 1935 to 1937 was Stanley Baldwin) wanted a \"working agreement\" on an air pact that would outlaw bombing, and that Britain would consider revising Versailles and Locarno in Germany's favor for an air pact. Prince Bismarck reported to Berlin that Wigram had hinted quite strongly that the \"things\" that Britain were willing to consider revising included remilitarization. On 22 February 1936 Mussolini, who was still angry about the League of Nations sanctions applied against his country for aggression against Ethiopia, told von Hassell that Italy would not honour Locarno if Germany were to remilitarize the Rhineland. Even if Mussolini had wanted to honour Locarno, practical problems would have arisen as the bulk of the Italian Army was at that time engaged in the conquest of Ethiopia, and as there is no common Italo-German frontier.\n\nHistorians debate the relation between Hitler's decision to remilitarize the Rhineland in 1936 and his broad long-term goals. Those historians who favour an \"intentionist\" interpretation of German foreign policy such as Klaus Hildebrand and the late Andreas Hillgruber see the Rhineland remilitarization as only one \"stage\" of Hitler's \"stufenplan\" (stage by stage plan) for world conquest. Those historians who take a \"functionist\" interpretation see the Rhineland remilitarization more as \"ad hoc\", improvised response on the part of Hitler to the economic crisis of 1936 as a cheap and easy way of restoring the regime's popularity. The British Marxist historian Timothy Mason famously argued that Hitler's foreign policy was driven by domestic needs related to a failing economy, and that it was economic problems at home as opposed to Hitler's \"will\" or \"intentions\" that drove Nazi foreign policy from 1936 onwards, which ultimately degenerated into a “barbaric variant of social imperialism\", which led to a \"flight into war\" in 1939. \n\nAs Hildebrand himself has noted, these interpretations are not necessarily mutually exclusive. Hildebrand has argued that although Hitler did have a \"programme\" for world domination, the way in which Hitler attempted to execute his \"programme\" was highly improvised and much subject to structural factors both on the international stage and domestically that were often not under Hitler's control. On February 26 the French National Assembly ratified the Franco-Soviet pact. On February 27, Hitler had lunch with Hermann Göring and Joseph Goebbels to discuss the planned remilitarization, with Goebbels writing in his diary afterwards: \"Still somewhat too early\". On February 29 an interview Hitler had on February 21 with the French fascist and journalist Bertrand de Jouvenel was published in the newspaper \"Paris-Midi\". During his interview with a clearly admiring de Jouvenel, Hitler professed himself a man of peace who desperately wanted friendship with France and blamed all of the problems in Franco-German relations on the French who for some strange reason were trying to \"encircle\" Germany via the Franco-Soviet pact, despite the evident fact that the Fuhrer was not seeking to threaten France. Hitler's interview with de Jouvenel was intended to influence French public opinion into believing that it was their government that was responsible for the remilitarization. Only on March 1 did Hitler finally make up his mind to proceed. A further factor in Hitler's decision was that the sanctions committee of the League was due to start discussing possible oil sanctions against Italy on 2 March, something that was likely to lead the diplomats of Europe to be focused on the Abyssinia Crisis at the expense of everything else.\n\nNot long after dawn on March 7, 1936, nineteen German infantry battalions and a handful of planes entered the Rhineland. By doing so, Germany violated Articles 42 and 43 of the Treaty of Versailles and Articles 1 and 2 of the Treaty of Locarno. They reached the river Rhine by 11:00 a.m. and then three battalions crossed to the west bank of the Rhine. At the same time, Baron von Neurath summoned the Italian ambassador Baron Bernardo Attolico, the British ambassador Sir Eric Phipps and the French ambassador André François-Poncet to the Wilhelmstrasse to hand them notes accusing France of violating Locarno by ratifying the Franco-Soviet pact, and announcing that as such Germany had decided to renounce Locarno and remilitarize the Rhineland.\n\nWhen German reconnaissance learned that thousands of French soldiers were congregating on the Franco-German border, General Blomberg begged Hitler to evacuate the German forces. Under Blomberg's influence, Hitler nearly ordered the German troops to withdraw, but was then persuaded by the resolutely calm Neurath to continue with Operation Winter Exercise. Following Neurath's advice, Hitler inquired whether the French forces had actually crossed the border and when informed that they had not, he assured Blomberg that Germany would wait until this happened. In marked contrast to Blomberg who was highly nervous during Operation Winter Exercise, Neurath stayed calm and very much urged Hitler to stay the course.\n\nThe Rhineland coup is often seen as the moment when Hitler could have been stopped with very little effort; the German forces involved in the move were small, compared to the much larger, and at the time more powerful, French military. The American journalist William L. Shirer wrote if the French had marched into the Rhineland,\n\nA German officer assigned to the Bendlerstrasse during the crisis told H. R. Knickerbocker during the Spanish Civil War: \"I can tell you that for five days and five nights not one of us closed an eye. We knew that if the French marched, we were done. We had no fortifications, and no army to match the French. If the French had even mobilized, we should have been compelled to retire.\" The general staff, the officer said, considered Hitler's action suicidal. General Heinz Guderian, a German general interviewed by French officers after the Second World War, claimed: \"If you French had intervened in the Rhineland in 1936 we should have been sunk and Hitler would have fallen.\"\n\nThat Hitler faced serious opposition gains apparent weight from the fact that Ludwig Beck and Werner von Fritsch did indeed become opponents of Hitler but according to the American historian Ernest May there is not a scrap of evidence for this at this stage. May wrote that the German Army officer corps was all for remilitarizing the Rhineland, and only the question of timing of such a move divided them from Hitler. May further noted that there is no evidence that the German Army was planning on overthrowing Hitler if he had been forced to order a withdraw from the Rhineland, and the fact that Mussolini utterly humiliated Hitler during the July Putsch in 1934 by forcing Germany to climb-down on Austria without leading to the slightest effort on the part of the \"Reichswehr\" to overthrow Hitler must cast further doubt on the thesis that Hitler would have been toppled if only he been forced to withdraw from the Rhineland.\n\nWriting about relations between Hitler and his generals in early 1936, the American historian J.T. Emerson declared: \"In fact, at no time during the twelve-year existence of the Third Reich did Hitler enjoy more amicable relations with his generals than in 1935 and 1936. During these years, there was nothing like an organized military resistance to party politics\". Later on in World War II, despite the increasing desperate situation of Germany from 1942 onwards and a whole series of humiliating defeats, the overwhelming majority of the Wehrmacht stayed loyal to the Nazi regime and continued to fight hard for that regime right up to its destruction in 1945 (the only exception being the \"putsch\" of July 20, 1944, in which only a minority of the Wehrmacht rebelled while the majority remained loyal). The willingness of the Wehrmacht to continue to fight and die hard for the National Socialist regime despite the fact Germany was clearly losing the war from 1943 onwards reflected the deep commitment of most of the Wehrmacht to National Socialism.\n\nFurthermore, the senior officers of the Wehrmacht were deeply corrupt men, who received huge bribes from Hitler in exchange for their loyalty. In 1933, Hitler had created a slush fund known as \"Konto\" 5 run by Hans Lammers, which provided bribes to senior officers and civil servants in exchange for their loyalty to the National Socialist regime. Given the intense devotion of the Wehrmacht to the National Socialist regime and its corrupt senior officers who never got quite enough in the way of bribes from Hitler, it is very unlikely that the Wehrmacht would have turned on their Fuhrer if the Wehrmacht were forced out of the Rhineland in 1936.\n\nOn 7 March 1936 Hitler announced before the \"Reichstag\" that the Rhineland had been remilitarized, and to blunt the danger of war, Hitler offered to return to the League of Nations, to sign an air pact to outlaw bombing as a way of war, and a non-aggression pact with France if the other powers agreed to accept the remilitarization. In his address to the \"Reichstag\", Hitler began with a lengthy denunciation of the Treaty of Versailles as unfair to Germany, claimed that he was a man of peace who wanted war with no-one, and argued that he was only seeking equality for Germany by peacefully overturning the unfair Treaty of Versailles. Hitler claimed that it was unfair that because of Versailles a part of Germany should be demilitarized whereas in every other nation of the world a government could order its troops to anywhere within its borders, and claimed all he wanted was \"equality\" for Germany. Even then, Hitler claimed that he would have been willing to accept the continued demilitarization of the Rhineland as Stresemann had promised at Locarno in 1925 as the price for peace, had it not been for the Franco-Soviet Pact of 1935, which he maintained was threatening to Germany and had left him with no other choice than to remilitarize the Rhineland. With his eye on public opinion abroad, Hitler made a point of stressing that the remilitarization was not intended to threaten anyone else, but was instead only a defensive measure imposed on Germany by what he claimed were the menacing actions of France and the Soviet Union. At least some people abroad accepted Hitler's claim that he been forced to take this step because of the Franco-Soviet pact. Former British Prime Minister David Lloyd George stated in the House of Commons that Hitler's actions in the wake of the Franco-Soviet pact were fully justified, and he would have been a traitor to Germany if he had not protected his country.\n\nWhen German troops marched into Cologne, a vast cheering crowd formed spontaneously to greet the soldiers, throwing flowers onto the Wehrmacht while Catholic priests offered to bless the soldiers. Cardinal Karl Joseph Schulte of Cologne held a Mass at Cologne Cathedral to celebrate and thank Hitler for \"sending back our army\". In Germany, the news that the Rhineland had been remilitarized was greeted with wild celebrations all over the country; the British historian Sir Ian Kershaw wrote of March 1936 that: \"People were besides themselves with delight … It was almost impossible not to be caught up in the infectious mood of joy\". Not until the victory over France in June 1940 was the Nazi regime to be as popular as it was in March 1936. Reports to the Sopade in the spring of 1936 mentioned that a great many erstwhile Social Democrats and opponents of the Nazis amongst the working class had nothing but approval of the remilitarization, and that many who had once been opposed to the Nazis under the Weimar Republic were now beginning to support them. \n\nTo capitalize on the vast popularity of the remilitarization, Hitler called a referendum on 29 March 1936 in which the majority of German voters expressed their approval of the remilitarization. During his campaign stops to ask for a yes vote, Hitler was greeted with huge crowds roaring their approval of his defiance of Versailles. Kershaw wrote that the 99% \"ja\" (yes) vote in the referendum was improbably high, but it is clear that an overwhelming majority of voters did genuinely chose to vote yes when asked if they approved of the remilitarization. The American journalist William L. Shirer wrote about the 1936 election: \"Nevertheless, this observer, who covered the \"election\" from one corner of the \"Reich\" to the other, has no doubt that the vote of approval for Hitler's coup was overwhelming. And why not? The junking of Versailles and the appearance of German soldiers marching again into what was, after all, German territory were things that almost all Germans naturally approved of. The No vote was given as 540, 211.\" In the aftermath of the remilitarization, the economic crisis which had so damaged the National Socialist regime's popularity was forgotten by almost all. After the Rhineland triumph, Hitler's self-confidence surged to new heights, and those who knew him well stated that after March 1936 there was a real psychological change as Hitler was utterly convinced of his infallibility in a way that he not been before.\n\nHistorians writing without benefit of access to the French archives (which were not opened until the mid-1970s) such as William L. Shirer in his books \"The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich\" (1960) and \"The Collapse of the Third Republic\" (1969) have claimed that France, although possessing at this time superior armed forces compared to Germany, including after a possible mobilization 100 infantry divisions, was psychologically unprepared to use force against Germany. Shirer quoted the figure of France having 100 divisions compared to Germany's 19 battalions in the Rhineland. France's actions during the Rhineland crisis have often used as support of the \"décadence\" thesis that during the interwar period the supposed decadence of the French way of life caused the French people to degenerate physically and morally to the point that the French were simply unable to stand up to Hitler, and the French in some way had it coming when they were defeated in 1940. Shirer wrote that the French could have easily turned back the German battalions in the Rhineland had the French people not been \"sinking into defeatism\" in 1936. Historians such as the American historian Stephen A. Schuker who have examined the relevant French primary sources have rejected Shirer's claims, finding that a major paralyzing factor on French policy was the economic situation. France's top military official, General Maurice Gamelin, informed the French government that the only way to remove the Germans from the Rhineland was to mobilize the French Army, which would not only be unpopular, it would also cost the French treasury 30 million francs per day. Gamelin assumed a worst-case scenario in which a French move into the Rhineland would spark an all-out Franco-German war, a case which required full mobilization. Gamelin's analysis was supported by the War Minister, General Louis Maurin who told the Cabinet that it was inconceivable that France could reverse the German remilitarization without full mobilization. This was especially the case as the \"Deuxième Bureau\" had seriously exaggerated the number of German troops in the Rhineland, sending in a report to the French cabinet estimating that there were 295,000 German troops in the Rhineland. The \"Deuxième Bureau\" had come up with this estimate by counting all of the SS, SA and \"Landespolizei\" formations in the Rhineland as regular troops, and so the French believed only by full mobilization would France have enough troops to expel the alleged 295,000 German troops from the Rhineland. The real number was actually 3,000 German soldiers. The French historian Jean-Baptiste Duroselle accused Gamelin of distorting what the \"Deuxième Bureau\"'s intelligence in his report to the cabinet by converting the SS, SA and \"Landespolizei\" units into fully trained troops to provide a reason for inaction. Neurath's (truthful) statement that Germany had only sent 19 battalions into the Rhineland was dismissed by Gamelin as a ruse to allow Germans to claim that they had not committed a \"flagrant violation\" of Locarno in order to avoid having Locarno invoked against Germany, and that Hitler would never risk a war by sending such a small force into the Rhineland. \nAt the same time, in late 1935-early 1936 France was gripped by a financial crisis, with the French Treasury informing the government that sufficient cash reserves to maintain the value of the franc as currently pegged by the gold standard in regard to the U.S. dollar and the British pound no longer existed, and only a huge foreign loan on the money markets of London and New York could prevent the value of the franc from experiencing a disastrous downfall. Because France was on the verge of elections scheduled for the spring of 1936, devaluation of the franc, which was viewed as abhorrent by large sections of French public opinion, was rejected by the caretaker government of Premier Albert Sarraut as politically unacceptable. Investor fears of a war with Germany were not conducive to raising the necessary loans to stabilize the franc: the German remilitarization of the Rhineland, by sparking fears of war, worsened the French economic crisis by causing a massive cash flow out of France as worried investors shifted their savings towards what were felt to be safer foreign markets. The fact that France had defaulted on its World War I debts in 1932 understandably led most investors to conclude if France should be involved in another war with Germany, the French would default again on their debts. On March 18, 1936 Wilfrid Baumgartner, the director of the \"Mouvement général des fonds\" (the French equivalent of a permanent under-secretary) reported to the government that France for all intents and purposes was bankrupt. Only by desperate arm-twisting from the major French financial institutions did Baumgartner manage to obtain enough in the way of short-term loans to prevent France from defaulting on her debts and keeping the value of the franc from sliding too far, in March 1936. Given the financial crisis, the French government feared that there were insufficient funds to cover the costs of mobilization, and that a full-blown war scare caused by mobilization would only exacerbate the financial crisis. The American historian Zach Shore wrote that: \"It was not lack of French will to fight in 1936 which permitted Hitler's coup, but rather France's lack of funds, military might, and therefore operational plans to counter German remilitarization.\"\n\nAn additional issue for the French was the state of the \"Armée de l'Air\". The \"Deuxième Bureau\" reported that not only had the \"Luftwaffe\" developed considerably more advanced aircraft than what France possessed, but owing to the superior productivity of German industry and the considerably larger size of the German economy the \"Luftwaffe\" had a three to one advantage in fighters. Problems with productivity within the French aircraft industry meant the French air force would have a great deal of trouble replacing their losses in the event of combat with the \"Luftwaffe\". Thus, it was believed by the French military elite that should war come, then the \"Luftwaffe\" would dominate the skies, and not only attack French troops marching into the Rhineland, but bomb French cities. Yet another problem for the French were the attitudes of the states of the \"cordon sanitaire\". Since 1919, it had accepted that France needed the alliance system in Eastern Europe to provide additional manpower (Germany's population was one and half times the size of France's) and to open up an eastern front against the \"Reich\". Without the states of the \"cordon sanitaire\", it was believed impossible for France to defeat Germany. Only Czechoslovakia indicated firmly that it would go to war with Germany if France marched into the Rhineland while Poland, Romania and Yugoslavia all indicated that they would only to go to war if German soldiers entered France. French public opinion and newspapers were very hostile towards the German coup, but few called for war. The majority of the French newspapers called for League of Nations sanctions to be imposed on the \"Reich\" to inflict such economically crippling costs as to force the German Army out of the Rhineland, and for France to build new and reinforce the existing alliances with the aim of preventing further German challenges to the international status quo. One of the few newspapers to support Germany was the royalist \"L'Action Française\" which ran a banner headline reading: \"The Republic Has Assassinated the Peace!\", and went on to say that the German move was justified by the Franco-Soviet pact. On the other ideological extreme, the Communists issued a statement calling for national unity against \"those who would lead us to carnage\" who were the \"Laval clique\" who were allegedly pushing for a war with Germany because war was supposedly good for capitalism.\n\nUpon hearing of the German move, the French government issued a statement strongly hinting that military action was a possible option. From 9:30 am until noon on 7 March, a meeting of the French cabinet took place to discuss what to do which ended with the conclusion that the French Foreign Minister, Pierre Étienne Flandin should meet the ambassadors of the Locarno powers to discuss their reaction. Georges Mandel was the sole voice in the French cabinet demanding that France should march at once into the Rhineland to expel the German troops, regardless of the costs. Later that day, another cabinet meeting was called with General-Secretary Alexis St. Leger representing the Quai d'Orsay and Maurice Gamelin the military, who decided to issue the statement saying France reserved every option to oppose the remilitarization. Flandin upon hearing of the remilitarization immediately went to London to consult the British Prime Minister, Stanley Baldwin, as Flandin wished, for domestic political reasons, to find a way of shifting the onus of not taking action onto British shoulders. Baldwin asked Flandin what the French Government had in mind but Flandin said they had not yet decided. Flandin went back to Paris and consulted the French Government what their response should be. They agreed that \"France would place all her forces at the disposal of the League of Nations to oppose a violation of the Treaties\". On 8 March, the Premier Albert Sarraut went on French radio to state: \"In the name of the French government, I declare that we intend to see maintained that essential guarantee of French and Belgian security, countersigned by the English and Italian governments, constituted by the Treaty of Locarno. We are not disposed to allow Strasbourg to come under fire from German guns\". At the same time, the French cabinet had decided that: \"We will put all our forces, material and moral, at the disposal of the League of Nations...on the one condition that we shall be accompanied in the fight for peace by those who are clearly bound themselves to do so by the Rhineland pact\". In other words, France would act against Germany only if Britain and Italy acted likewise.\n\nSince the French government for economic reasons had already ruled out mobilization, and hence war as a way of reversing Hitler's Rhineland coup, it was decided that the best that France could do under the situation was to use the crisis to obtain the \"continental commitment\" (i.e. a British commitment to send large ground forces to the defense of France on the same scale of World War I). The strategy of Flandin was to strongly imply to the British that France was willing to go to war with Germany over the Rhineland issue, in the expectation that the British were not willing to see their Locarno commitments lead them into a war with the Germans over an issue where many in Britain felt that the Germans were in the right. As such, Flandin expected London to apply pressure for \"restraint\" on Paris. The price of the French \"restraint\" in regards to the Rhineland provocation, an open violation of both the Versailles and Locarno treaties was to be the British \"continental commitment\" unequivocally linking British security to French security, and committing the British to send another large expeditionary force to defend France in the event of a German attack.\n\nDuring his visit to London to consult with the British Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin and Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden, Flandin carried out what the Canadian historian Robert J. Young called \"the performance of a lifetime\", in which he expressed a great deal of outrage at the German move, stated quite openly that France was prepared to go to war over the issue, and strongly criticized his British hosts for the demands for French \"restraint\" while not offering to do anything for French \"sécurité\" (security). As expected by Flandin, Eden was opposed to the French taking military action, and appealed for French \"restraint\". Not aware of what Flandin was attempting to do, French military officials urged the government to tell Flandin to tone down his language. In the face of Flandin's tactics, on March 19, 1936 the British government made a vague statement linking British security to French security, and for the first time since World War I agreed to Anglo-French staff talks, albeit of very limited scope. Though disappointed with the British offers, which the French felt were too little, the French nonetheless considered the pledges of British support gained in 1936 to be a worthwhile achievement, especially given that for economic reasons mobilization was not considered a realistic option in 1936. Those French officials such as Quai d'Orsay's \"directeur politique\" (Political Director) René Massigli who believed in the idea of an Anglo-French alliance as the best way of stopping German expansionism expressed a great deal of disappointment that Britain was not prepared to do more for French \"sécurité\". In a report to Flandin, Massigli warned that if French accepted remilitarization, then the Poles, the Yugoslavs and the Romanians would drift into the German orbit while Czechoslovakia would do its best to stay loyal to its 1924 alliance with France, and it would only be a matter of time before Germany annexed Austria. In particular, Massigli warned if the Germans were able to fortify the Rhineland, that would essentially mean giving the \"Reich\" a free hand to expand into Eastern Europe. As part of an effort to secure more in the way of the long-desired \"continental commitment\" that had been a major goal of French foreign policy since 1919, Gamelin told the British military attaché that:\n\nThe generalissimo of the French Army, General Gamelin, told the French government that if France countered the German forces and this caused a long war, France would be unable to win fighting alone and therefore would need British assistance. The French Government, with an upcoming general election in mind, decided against general mobilization of the French Army. The remilitarization removed the last hold France had over Germany and therefore ended the security France had gained from the Treaty of Versailles. As long as the Rhineland was demilitarized, the French could easily re-occupy the area and threaten the economically important Ruhr industrial area which was liable to French invasion if France believed the situation in Germany ever became a threat.\n\nThe reaction in Britain was mixed, but they did not generally regard the remilitarization as harmful. Lord Lothian famously said it was no more than the Germans walking into their own backyard. George Bernard Shaw similarly claimed it was no different than if Britain had reoccupied Portsmouth. In his diary entry for 23 March, Harold Nicolson MP noted that \"the feeling in the House [of Commons] is terribly pro-German, which means afraid of war\". During the Rhineland crisis of 1936, no public meetings or rallies were held anywhere in protest at the remilitarization of the Rhineland, and instead there were several \"peace\" rallies where it was demanded that Britain not use war to resolve the crisis. Ever since the economist John Maynard Keynes had published his best-selling book \"The Economic Consequences of the Peace\" in 1919—in which Keynes depicted Versailles as an unbearably harsh \"Carthaginian peace\" imposed by the vindictive Allies—an increasingly large segment of British public opinion had become convinced that the Treaty of Versailles was deeply \"unjust\" to Germany. By 1936, when German troops marched back into the Rhineland, the majority of British people believed that Hitler was right to violate the \"unjust\" Versailles treaty, and it would be morally wrong for Britain to go to war to uphold the \"unjust\" Treaty of Versailles. The British War Secretary Alfred Duff Cooper told the German Ambassador Leopold von Hoesch on 8 March: \"through the British people were prepared to fight for France in the event of a German incursion into French territory, they would not resort to arms on account of the recent occupation of the Rhineland. The people did not know much about the demilitarization provisions and most of them probably took the view that they did not care 'two hoots' about the Germans reoccupying their own territory\".\n\nThe Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin claimed, with tears in his eyes, that Britain lacked the resources to enforce her treaty guarantees and that public opinion would not stand for military force anyway. The British Chiefs of Staff had warned that war with Germany was inadvisable under the grounds that the deep cuts imposed by the Ten Year Rule together with the fact that rearmament had only begun in 1934 meant that at most Britain could do in the event of war would be to send two divisions with backward equipment to France after three weeks of preparation. Additionally, fears were expressed in Whitehall if Britain went to war with Germany, then Japan, which since 1931 when Japanese had seized Manchuria from China had been making claims to be the only power in the Far East, might take advantage of the war to start seizing Britain's Asian colonies.\n\nThe British Foreign Secretary, Anthony Eden, discouraged military action by the French and was against any financial or economic sanctions against Germany, immediately meeting the French ambassador Charles Corbin to urge restraint on the French. Eden instead wanted Germany to pull out all but a symbolic number of troops, the number they said they were going to put in the first place, and then renegotiate. An additional factor that influenced British policy was the lack of the Dominion support. All of the Dominion High Commissioners in London, with South Africa and Canada being especially outspoken in this regard, made it quite clear that they would not go to war to restore the demilitarized status of the Rhineland, and that if Britain did so, she would be on her own. The American historian Gerhard Weinberg wrote that \"...by 13 March that the British Dominions, especially the Union of South Africa and Canada, would not stand with England if war came. The South African government in particular was busy backing the German position in London and with the other Dominion governments\". Both the South African Prime Minister General J. B. M. Hertzog and the Canadian Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King had to face domestic constituencies, respectively the Afrikaners and the French Canadians, many of whom had deep objections to fighting in another \"British war\" against Germany, and as such both Hertzog and Mackenzie King were staunch supporters of appeasement as the best way of avoiding such a war. Neither Hertzog nor Mackenzie King wished to have chose between loyalty to the British Empire vs. dealing with anti-British voters if war came. Ever since the Chanak Crisis of 1922, Britain had been keenly conscious that Dominion support could no longer be automatically assumed, and remembering the huge role the Dominions had played in the victory of 1918, could not consider fighting another major war without Dominion support.\n\nThe British Foreign Office for its part expressed a great deal of frustration over Hitler's action in unilaterally taking what London had proposed to negotiate. As a Foreign Office memo complained: \"Hitler has deprived us of the possibility of making to him a concession which might otherwise have been a useful bargaining counter in our hands in the general negotiations with Germany which we had it in contemplation to initiate\". The Rhineland crisis completed the estrangement between Eden who believed that Hitler's proposals in his speech of 7 March were the grounds for a \"general settlement\" with Germany, and Vansittart who argued that Hitler was negotiating in bad faith. Eden and Vansittart had already clashed during the Abyssinia Crisis with Eden supporting sanctions against Italy while Vansittart wanted Italy as an ally against Germany. Vansittart argued that there was no prospect of a \"general settlement\" with Hitler, and the best that could be done was to strengthen ties with the French in order to confront Germany. The Germanophobe Vansittart had always hated the Germans, and especially disliked the Nazis, whom he saw as a menace to civilization. Vansittart had supported Eden's efforts to defuse the Rhineland crisis as British rearmament had only just began, but being an intense Francophile Vansittart urged the government to use the crisis as a chance to begin forming a military alliance with France against Germany. By the spring of 1936, Vansittart had become convinced that a \"general settlement\" with Germany was not possible, and Hitler was seeking the conquest of the world. A Foreign Office official Owen O'Malley suggested that Britain give Germany a \"free hand in the East\" (i.e. accept the German conquest of all Eastern Europe) in exchange for a German promise to accept the status quo in Western Europe. Vansittart wrote in response that Hitler was seeking world conquest, and that to allow Germany to conquer all of Eastern Europe would give the \"Reich\" sufficient raw materials to make Germany immune to a British blockade, which would then allow the Germans to overrun Western Europe. Vansittart commented that to allow Germany to conquer Eastern Europe would \"lead to the disappearance of liberty and democracy in Europe\". By contrast, Eden saw British interests as confined only to Western Europe, and did not share Vansittart's beliefs about what Hitler's ultimate intentions might be. Nor did Eden, the rest of the Cabinet or the majority of the British people share Vansittart's conviction that Britain could not afford to be indifferent about Eastern Europe.\n\nThough the British had agreed to staff talks with the French as the price of French \"restraint\", many British ministers were unhappy with these talks. The Home Secretary Sir John Simon wrote to Eden and Baldwin that staff talks to be held with the French after the Rhineland remilitarization would lead the French to perceive that:\n\nIn response to objections like Simon's, the British ended the staff talks with the French five days after they had begun; Anglo-French staff talks were not to occur again until February 1939 in the aftermath of the Dutch War Scare of January 1939. Besides opposition within the cabinet, the Anglo-French staff talks generated furious criticism from David Lloyd George and the Beaverbrook and Rothermere press who fumed, as the \"Daily Mail\" put it in a leader, over \"military arrangements that will commit us to some war at the call of others\". Furthermore, Hitler's Extraordinary Ambassador-at-Large Joachim von Ribbentrop had warned Baldwin and Eden that Germany regarded the Anglo-French staff talks as a mortal threat, and any hope of a \"general settlement\" with Germany would end forever if the talks continued. However, the rather hazily phrased British statement linking British security to French \"sécurité\" was not disallowed out of the fear that it would irreparably damage Anglo-French relations, which as the British historian A. J. P. Taylor observed, meant should France become involved in a war with Germany, there would be at a minimum a strong moral case because of the statement of March 19, 1936 for Britain to fight on the side of France.\n\nUntil the statement by Neville Chamberlain on March 31, 1939 offering the \"guarantee\" of Poland, there were no British security commitments in Eastern Europe beyond the Covenant of the League of Nations. However, because of the French alliance system in Eastern Europe, the so-called \"Cordon sanitaire\", any German attack on France's Eastern European allies would cause a Franco-German war, and because of the statement of March 19, 1936 a Franco-German war would create strong pressure for British intervention on the side of France. This was all the more the case because unlike the Locarno, where Britain was committed to come to France's defence only in the event of a German attack, the British statement of March 19 as part of an effort to be as vague as possible only stated Britain considered French security to be a vital national need, and did not distinguish between a German attack on France vs. France going to war with Germany in the event of a German attack on a member of the \"cordon sanitarie\". Thus, in this way, the British statement of March 1936 offered not only a direct British commitment to defend France (albeit phrased in exceedingly ambiguous language), but also indirectly to the Eastern European states of the \"cordon sanitaire\". In this way, the British government found itself drawn into the Central European crisis of 1938 because the Franco-Czechoslovak alliance of 1924 meant any German-Czechoslovak war would automatically become a Franco-German war. It was because of this indirect security commitment that the British involved themselves in the Central European crisis of 1938, despite the widespread feeling that the German-Czechoslovak dispute did not concern Britain directly.\n\nDuring a House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee meeting on 12 March, Winston Churchill, a backbench Conservative MP, argued for Anglo-French co-ordination under the League of Nations to help France challenge the remilitarization of the Rhineland, but this never happened. On 6 April Churchill said of the remilitarization, \"The creation of a line of forts opposite to the French frontier will enable the German troops to be economized on that line and will enable the main forces to swing round through Belgium and Holland\", accurately predicting the Battle of France.\n\nBelgium concluded an alliance with France in 1920 but after the remilitarization Belgium opted again for neutrality. On 14 October 1936 King Leopold III of Belgium said in a speech:\n\nPoland, announced that the Franco-Polish Military Alliance signed in 1921 would be honoured, although the treaty stipulated that Poland would aid France only if France was invaded. At the same time that Colonel Beck was assuring the French ambassador Léon Noël of his commitment to the Franco-Polish alliance and Poland's willingness to stand with France, he was also telling the German ambassador Count Hans-Adolf von Moltke that since Germany was not planning on invading France, the Franco-Polish alliance would not come into effect and Poland would do nothing if France acted. Beck made a point of stressing to Moltke that Poland had not been allowed to sign Locarno and would not go to war for Locarno, and that as one of the architects of the German-Polish nonaggression pact of 1934 that he was a friend of the \"Reich\". Beck told Moltke on 9 March that his promise to go to war with France was \"in practice, without effect\" because it only came into effect if German troops entered France. Weinberg wrote that Beck's \"duplicity\" during the Rhineland crisis of telling the German and French ambassadors different things about what Poland would do \"… did nothing for Beck's personal reputation and involved enormous risks …\" for Poland. Poland did agree to mobilize its forces if France did first, however they abstained from voting against the remilitarization in the Council of the League of Nations.\n\nDuring the Rhineland crisis, the isolationist American government took a strict \"hands off\" policy of doing nothing. During the crisis, President Franklin D. Roosevelt went off on a \"diplomatically convenient\" extended fishing trip to Florida to avoid having to answer questions from journalists about what his administration planned to do in response to the crisis in Europe. The general sentiment within the U.S. government was expressed by Truman Smith, the American military attaché in Berlin who wrote that Hitler was seeking only to end French domination in Europe, and was not seeking to destroy France as a power. Smith's report concluded: \"Versailles is dead. There may possibly be a German catastrophe and a new Versailles, but it will not be the Versailles which has hung like a dark cloud over Europe since 1920\".\n\nIn public, the Soviet government took a strong line in denouncing the German coup as a threat to peace. At the same time the Soviet Foreign Commissar Maxim Litvinov was giving speeches before the General Assembly of the League of Nations praising collective security and urging the world to oppose Hitler's coup, Soviet diplomats in Berlin were telling their counterparts at the \"Auswärtiges Amt\" of their desire for better commercial relations, which in turn might lead to better political relations. Just after the remilitarization, the Soviet Premier Vyacheslav Molotov gave an interview with the Swiss newspaper \"Le Temps\" hinting that the Soviet Union wanted better relations with Germany. In April 1936, the Soviet Union signed a commercial treaty with Germany providing for expanded German-Soviet trade. A major problem for the Soviet Union to go to war with Germany was the lack of a common German-Soviet frontier, which would require both the Polish and Romanian governments to grant transit right to the Red Army. Despite their professed willingness to engage with the Wehrmacht, the Narkomindel tended to negotiate with the Poles and the Romanians over transit rights in the event of a war in such a manner to suggest that they wanted the talks to fail, suggesting that the Soviet hard line against Germany was just posturing. The Romanians and even more so the Poles expressed a great deal of fear that if the Red Army were allowed transit rights to enter their countries on the way to fight Germany that they would fail to leave once the war was over; the Narkomindel failed to provide convincing reassurances on that point.\n\nWhen the Council of the League of Nations met in London, the only delegate in favour of sanctions against Germany was Maxim Litvinov, the representative of the Soviet Union. Though Germany was no longer a member of the League, Ribbentrop was allowed to give a speech before the League Assembly on 19 March where he tried to justify Germany's actions as something imposed on the \"Reich\" by the Franco-Soviet pact, and warned that there would be serious economic consequences for those states who voted to impose sanctions on Germany. By 1936, a number of Eastern European, Scandinavian and Latin American countries whose economies were hard-pressed by the Great Depression had become very dependent upon trade with Germany to keep their economies afloat, which meant for economic reasons alone none of those states wished to offend Germany. President Federico Páez of Ecuador gave a speech in which he declared the idea of sanctions against the \"Reich\" to be \"nonsensical\". At the time, the British Foreign Office estimated that Britain, France, Romania, Belgium, Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union were the only nations in the entire world willing to impose sanctions on Germany. The Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Polish, Dutch, Greek, Swiss, Turkish, Chilean, Estonian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Finnish ambassadors to the League all let it be known that they regarded sanctions on Germany as \"economic suicide\" for their countries. Mussolini, who was still angry with the League sanctions applied against Italy, made a speech in which he made it clear that he definitely would not be joining any sanctions against Germany for remilitarizing the Rhineland. In the fall of 1935, Britain had been able to have the League impose limited sanctions on Italy, but by the later winter of 1936, the idea of imposing sweeping sanctions on Germany—whose economy was four times the size of Italy's, making Germany an \"economic octopus\" whose tentacles were everywhere around the world—was unthinkable for rest of the world. Moreover, for the sanctions to work, the United States had to join in. In 1935, the American government had declared that as the U.S. was not a League member, it would not abide by the League sanctions on Italy, which was hardly a hopeful precedent for the idea that U.S. would join in with imposing sanctions on Germany. Argentina declared that it would vote for sanctions against Germany only if the United States promised to join in. The Council declared, though not unanimously, that the remilitarization constituted a breach of the Treaties of Versailles and Locarno. Hitler was invited to plan a new scheme for European security, and he responded by claiming he had \"no territorial claims in Europe\" and wanted a 25-year pact of non-aggression with Britain and France. However, when the British Government inquired further into this proposed pact, they did not receive a reply.\n\nThe remilitarization changed the balance of power decisively in favor of the \"Reich\". French credibility in standing against German expansion or aggression was left in doubt. French military strategy was entirely defensive, and it had no intention whatsoever of invading Germany. Instead it planned to defend the Maginot Line. Its failure to send even a single unit into Rhineland signaled that strategy to all of Europe. Potential allies in Eastern Europe could no longer trust in an alliance with a France that could not be trusted to deter Germany through threat of an invasion. without such deterrence, the ally was militarily helpless. Belgium dropped its defensive alliance with France and relied on neutrality. Paris neglected to expand the Maginot line to cover the Belgian border, which is where Germany invaded in 1940. Mussolini had previously pushed back against German expansion, now he realized cooperation with France was unpromising, so he began instead to swing in favor of Berlin. All of France's friends were disappointed – even the Pope told the French ambassador that, \"Had you ordered the immediate advance of 200,000 men into the zone the Germans had occupied, you would have done everyone a very great favor.\"\n\nWith the Rhineland remilitarized, Germany started the construction of the Siegfried Line, which meant that if Germany attacked any of the states in the \"cordon sanitaire\", the ability of France to threaten an invasion was henceforward limited. Such was the impact of the remilitarization on the balance of power that the Czechoslovak President Edvard Beneš seriously considered renouncing the alliance with France, and instead seeking a rapprochement with Germany, only abandoning that idea when it became clear that the price of a rapprochement with Hitler would be the effective loss of his country's independence. Likewise, King Carol II of Romania concluded that Romania might have to abandon its alliance with France, and instead accept that his country would have to move from being in the French sphere of influence to being in the German sphere of influence. When William C. Bullitt, the newly appointed American ambassador to France visited Germany in May 1936, he met with Baron von Neurath. On 18 May 1936, Bullitt reported to President Roosevelt that: \"Von Neurath said that it was the policy of the German government to do nothing active in foreign affairs until \"the Rhineland had been digested\". He explained that he meant that until the German fortifications had been constructed on the French and Belgian borders, the German government would do everything possible to prevent rather than encourage an outbreak by Nazis in Austria and would pursue a quiet line with regard to Czechoslovakia. \"As soon as our fortifications are constructed and the countries of Central Europe realize that France cannot enter German territory at will, all those countries will begin to feel very differently about their foreign policies and a new constellation will develop\", he said\". Between the 15–20 June 1936, the chiefs of staff of the Little Entente of Czechoslovakia, Romania, and Yugoslavia met to discuss the changed international situation. They decided to maintain their present plans for a war with Hungary, but concluded that, with the Rhineland now remilitarized, there was little hope of effective French action in the event of a war with Germany. The meeting ended with the conclusion that there now were only two great powers in Eastern Europe, namely Germany and the Soviet Union, and the best that could be hoped for was to avoid another war that would almost certainly mean the loss of their nations' independence, regardless of who won. Weinberg wrote that attitude of the entire German elite and much of the German people, that any new war would only benefit Germany and that ending the Rhineland's demilitarized status could only be a good thing as it opened the door to starting a new war, was an extremely short-sighted, self-destructive and stupid attitude, even from a narrowly German viewpoint. Weinberg notes that Germany lost its independence in 1945 and lost far more territory under the Oder-Neisse line imposed in 1945 than it ever had under Versailles, together with millions of dead and the destruction of its cities. Thus, from the German viewpoint, the best thing to do would have been to accept Versailles rather than start a new war—one which ended with Germany being totally crushed, partitioned and occupied.\n\n\n", "id": "7734670", "categories": ["20th century in North Rhine-Westphalia", "Rhine Province", "1936 in Germany", "March 1936 events", "20th century in Rhineland-Palatinate", "Military of Nazi Germany", "History of the Rhineland"], "title": "Remilitarization of the Rhineland"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734681", "text": "Bird Island, North Carolina\n\nBird Island is approximately adjacent to the coastal resort town of Sunset Beach, North Carolina, USA. Sunset Beach is on a barrier island and is the southernmost town in North Carolina. Bird Island can be reached by walking along the seashore toward the South Carolina border. Due to the contour of the Atlantic Coast at this point, the direction of travel to Bird Island is approximately West-Southwest. Previously, Bird Island was separated from Sunset Beach by a tidal creek (Mad Inlet) that could be easily crossed only at low tide. Accretion of ocean sand (due to hurricane activity in the 1990s as well as environmental activity to fill in dune grass) has gradually filled in the tidal creek so that two separate islands became one.\n\nBird Island was privately owned prior to 2002. The shoreline, dunes, and marshland of Bird Island provide important habitat and nesting for species that are endangered, threatened, or of special concern, including the Kemp's Ridley and Loggerhead sea turtles. Although there was no vehicular access to this land, there was the threat that the land might some day be developed. The state of North Carolina used $4.2 million of public and private funding to purchase the land and create a coastal reserve, administered by the North Carolina Division of Coastal Management.\n", "id": "7734681", "categories": ["Protected areas of Brunswick County, North Carolina", "Cape Fear (region)", "Beaches of North Carolina", "Nature reserves in North Carolina"], "title": "Bird Island, North Carolina"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734704", "text": "T. C. Steele\n\nTheodore Clement Steele (September 11, 1847 – July 24, 1926) was an American Impressionist painter known for his Indiana landscapes. Steele was an innovator and leader in American Midwest painting and is one of the most famous of Indiana's Hoosier Group painters. In addition to painting, Steele contributed writings, public lectures, and hours of community service on art juries that selected entries for national and international exhibitions, most notably the Universal Exposition (1900) in Paris, France, and the Louisiana Purchase Exposition (1904) in Saint Louis, Missouri. He was also involved in organizing pioneering art associations, such as the Society of Western Artists.\n\nSteele’s work has appeared in a number of prestigious exhibitions, including the World’s Columbian Exposition (1893) in Chicago, Illinois; the \"Five Hoosier Painters\" exhibition (1894) in Chicago; the Louisiana Purchase Exposition (1904) in Saint Louis; the International Exhibit of Fine Arts (1910) in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and Santiago, Chile; and at the Panama-Pacific International Exposition (1915) in San Francisco, California.\n\nSteele’s work is widely collected by museums and individuals. His paintings in public collections include those of the Haan Mansion Museum of Indiana Art, Indiana State Museum, Indianapolis Museum of Art, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and the Indiana University Art Museum in Bloomington, Indiana, among others.\n\nSteele’s contributions were recognized with honorary degrees from Wabash College in 1900 and Indiana University in 1916. In addition, Steele was elected to an associate membership in New York’s National Academy of Design in 1913.\n\nSteele was born near Gosport in Owen County, Indiana, on September 11, 1847, the eldest child of Samuel Hamilton and Harriett Newell Evans Steele. Steele’s father was a saddle maker and farmer. In 1852 the family moved to Waveland in Montgomery County, Indiana, where Steele developed an interest in art and learned to draw. The T.C. Steele Boyhood Home at Waveland was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2003.\n\nSteele began formal art training as a boy at the Waveland Collegiate Institute (Waveland Academy). At sixteen, he continued his art training at Asbury College (now DePauw University) in Greencastle, Indiana. Steele also studied briefly in Chicago, Illinois, and Cincinnati, Ohio, before returning to Indiana to paint portraits on commission.\n\nIn 1870 Steele married Mary Elizabeth (Libby) Lakin. The couple moved to Battle Creek, Michigan, where a son Rembrandt, or Brandt, was born in 1870; a daughter Margaret (Daisy) was born in 1872. Soon after Daisy’s birth the family moved to Indianapolis, Indiana. Although it was difficult, Steele managed to support his family by painting commissioned portraits and commercial signs. Another son, Shirley, was born in Indianapolis in 1879. Libby, who suffered from chronic rheumatoid arthritis and tuberculosis, died in 1899. Daisy Steele married Gustave Neubacher of Indianapolis in 1905.\n\nSteele married Selma Laura Neubacher, an Indianapolis art educator and Gustave's older sister, on August 9, 1907, in Indianapolis. The newlyweds immediately moved into a newly constructed, four-room home, which they named the House of the Singing Winds, on more than of hilltop land in Brown County, Indiana. In 1910 Steele purchased the adjoining 40 acre tract as an addition to his original 171-acre tract, bringing the total acreage to . T. C. and Selma, who was twenty-five years younger than Steele, had no children together. She died on August 28, 1945.\n\nTo help Steele obtain additional art training in Europe, his friend and art patron, Herman Lieber, arranged to provide financial support for the family so Steele could study at the Academy of Fine Arts, Munich. In exchange for future paintings from Steele, thirteen patrons each pledged $100 to support Steele’s studies. In 1880 the Steele family sailed to Europe with fellow Hoosiers J. Ottis Adams, Carrie Wolf, August Metzner, and Samuel Richards. The group was joined two years later by Hoosier artist William Forsyth. In addition to training at the Royal Academy under the instruction of artists Gyula Benczúr and Ludwig Löfftz, Steele spent hours studying paintings of the Old Masters in Munich’s Alte Pinakothek galleries. He also painted in the countryside with his family and other artists, including Boston landscape painter J. Frank Currier. Steele enjoyed plein air, or outdoor painting, which is reflected in many of his landscapes. At Steele’s request, his sponsors extended their financial support so that he could continue studies in Munich for two more years. Steele also used funds earned from painting copies of Old Masters to pay for several additional months before the family returned to Indiana in 1885.\n\nUpon their return to Indianapolis, the Steele family rented the Tinker mansion (Talbott Place) at Sixteenth and Pennsylvania Streets. Steele kept a studio downtown, where he could paint and display his work while he earned a living primarily as a portrait painter and art teacher. Around 1886 Steele had a studio built on the Tinker property, and the home, already an Indianapolis landmark, became a hub for the local arts community.\n\nSteele’s paintings showed a notable change in style after his return from Munich. Steele’s Munich paintings sported dark, drab colors and high contrasts, but his work in Indiana gradually shifted toward a brighter, more vivid color palette. Steele was especially interested in capturing the beauty of nature through expressions of light and color. His paintings included both urban and rural scenes and depicted changes of season as well as weather conditions of snow, rain, and sunshine. Steele's works show a \"sympathic\" and \"technical grasp of his subjects\" with a \"comprehension of the majestic aspects of nature\" with \"much feeling for the influence of light and atmosphere.\"\n\nIn addition to local exhibitions, Steele’s art appeared outside of Indiana, including the Eighth Annual Exhibition of the prestigious Society of American Artists at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City in 1886. During the summer months, Steele took his family to the country, where he painted rural landscapes. The Muscatatuck River near Vernon, Indiana, was a favorite locale. Fellow landscape artist Forsyth frequently accompanied Steele on these expeditions. Steele also painted in Vermont and Tennessee, where he had taken his first wife, Libby, in hopes of improving her health.\n\nThe 1890s were a turning point in Steele’s career. In 1890 Steele published \"The Steele Portfolio\", which contained twenty-five photogravure prints of his paintings, including \"The Boatman\", his prize-winning student work from Munich. In 1891 Forsyth joined Steele as an instructor at the Indiana Art School, which Steele established in 1889. Steele continued to teach there until 1895, before returning to painting on a full-time basis. In November 1894 the Art Association of Indianapolis sponsored the \"Exhibit of Summer Work\" by Steele, Forsyth, Richard B. Gruelle, and Otto Stark. The exhibition so impressed art critic and novelist Hamlin Garland that he arranged to have the exhibition shown in Chicago. Sponsored by the Central Art Association, the Indiana exhibit, called \"Five Hoosier Painters\", expanded to include paintings by Adams. This Chicago exhibition is credited with launching the careers of the Hoosier Group of Indiana painters.\n\nThroughout the 1890s, Steele painted landscapes during the warm months and returned to a winter studio to paint portraits, still his primary source of income. In addition, Steele actively exhibited his work, delivered lectures, and helped organize the Society of Western Artists, whose annual exhibition attracted national attention. Steele later became the organization’s president. Steele painted outdoors near Vernon, then moved on to Bloomington in Monroe County, Indiana, and Metamora in Franklin County, Indiana, where he did some of his best work. The area around Metamora was instrumental in the development of Hoosier landscape painting. Fellow landscape painters Adams, Forsyth, Stark and others joined Steele as he painted outdoors. In 1898 Steele and Adams bought a home in Brookville, Indiana, eight miles east of Metamora, so they could be closer to the area’s scenic beauty. Named The Hermitage, the home was quiet, secluded, and provided a place where the artists could work without interruption. In 1899 Steele became a member of the jury that selected American paintings for inclusion in the Paris Universal Exposition in 1900, a world’s fair expected to attract millions of visitors. Sadly, Steele's wife, Libby, died at the age of forty-nine in November 1899.\n\nThe new century marked a number of changes in Steele’s life. In 1900 he received an honorary master of arts degree from Wabash College in Crawfordsville, Indiana. That same year the Art Association of Indianapolis received a large donation from John Herron to establish a museum and art school in the city. The association selected the Tinker mansion, Steele’s home in Indianapolis, and purchased the property from his landlord. Steele’s art studio became the first Herron School of Art. Steele leased another home on East Saint Clair Street in Indianapolis. Portrait commissions remained a major source of income for Steele and his subjects included poet James Whitcomb Riley, the official portraits of several Indiana governors, President Benjamin Harrison, and other prominent Hoosiers.\n\nIn 1902 Steele and his daughter, Daisy, traveled to the West Coast to visit family in Oregon and Redlands, California. The cross-county trip inspired Steele to paint more than a dozen exceptional works of art. He entered several of his West Coast paintings in the Society of Western Artists’ Sixth Annual Exhibition, which was well received by art critics. Steele and his daughter made another cross-country trip in 1903. A year later Steele was invited to be a juror on the selection committee of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, the 1904 world’s fair at Saint Louis. Four of Steele’s paintings were selected for the exposition and an additional five paintings were shown in the Indiana Building. At home in Indianapolis, Steele became actively involved in plans for the Art Association’s new museum, serving as chair of the acquisitions committee. The Tinker house was demolished in 1905 to make space for the Herron Art Institute. In 1906 Steele sold his interest in The Hermitage at Brookville to Adams and returned to Indianapolis, where he remained active in the arts community.\n\nAs Steele explored new places to paint, he discovered an isolated area of Brown County, Indiana, where he built a hilltop studio-home on of land one and a half miles south of Belmont, between Bloomington and Nashville, Indiana. Steele moved into the new summer residence with his second wife, Selma, in August 1907. Inspired by the breezes blowing through the cottage’s screened porches, they named it the House of the Singing Winds. The land, while not suitable for agricultural purpose, provided Steele with \"beautiful picturesque woods and hills and valleys.\"\n\nSlowly, over time, the Steeles developed their Brown County property, acquiring additional acreage to increase it to a total of of land, and making further improvements to include an enlarged home and surround it with beautiful gardens, a barn-sized studio-gallery, and several other outbuildings. The couple made it their year-round residence in 1912.\n\nShortly before Selma's death in 1945, she donated the property on of land to the Indiana Department of Conservation (the present-day Indiana Department of Natural Resources) to establish a state historic site in memory of her husband. The property was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1973 as the Theodore Clement Steele House and Studio. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources operates the T. C. Steele State Historic Site, the property's present-day name. The site is open to the public and offers guided tours of the home and studio.\n\nSteele kept a studio in Indianapolis, but his home in rural Brown County increasingly attracted visitors and other artists to the area. Despite its remote location, visitors came out of curiosity to see the scenic beauty surrounding the painter's home. Steele's presence in Brown County, along with other full-time resident artists such as Will Vawter, Gustave Baumann, Dale Bessire, and others, helped attract newcomers to the growing Brown County Art Colony.\n\nSteele's reputation in the art world continued to rise. In 1913 he was elected as an associate artist to the National Academy of Design in New York, confirming Steele's standing as the most famous Hoosier artist of his time. Three of his paintings were accepted in the prestigious Panama-Pacific International Exposition in San Francisco, California, in 1915.\n\nIn 1922 Steele accepted an appointment as Indiana University’s first artist in residence. Steele and his wife, Selma, rented a home in Bloomington, Indiana, during the winter months, but returned to their home in Brown County each summer. On campus Steele kept a studio on the top floor of IU's University Library (now Franklin Hall), where he and his wife greeted visitors and students could watch him paint.\n\nSteele continued to exhibit his art, including a major exhibition called the Hoosier Salon, held in Chicago and organized by The Daughters of Indiana. He also maintained a busy lecture schedule.\n\nIn December 1925, Steele suffered a heart attack. Although he recovered and continued to paint, he became ill the following June and died at home in Brown County on July 24, 1926. His ashes were buried on a hillside that was reserved for a family cemetery (the T. C. Steele Memorial Cemetery) on the Steeles' property near Belmont in Brown County, Indiana.\n\n\nNotable landscapes and portraits:\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7734704", "categories": ["19th-century American painters", "Artists from Indianapolis", "American landscape painters", "1847 births", "American Impressionist painters", "American male painters", "People from Brown County, Indiana", "Hoosier Group landscape painters", "Painters from Indiana", "1926 deaths", "People from Owen County, Indiana", "Academy of Fine Arts, Munich alumni", "National Academy of Design associates"], "title": "T. C. Steele"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734717", "text": "Rocksimus Maximus Tour/World Domination Tour\n\nThe Rocksimus Maximus Tour/World Domination Tour was a North American concert tour co-headlined by Aerosmith and Kiss. The tour was referred to as the World Domination Tour by Kiss and was called the Rocksimus Maximus Tour by Aerosmith. It is sometimes referred to informally as the \"AeroKiss Tour\", incorporating the names of both headlining bands, as well as \"Lips 'n' Tongue Tour\", emphasizing on the fact that Gene Simmons has a long tongue and Steven Tyler has full pouting lips. The tour occurred in the latter half of 2003 and took both bands to amphitheaters across the United States in late summer and early fall, and to arenas in late fall and early winter.\n\nIt was the first tour in Kiss history with Tommy Thayer replacing Ace Frehley. Peter Criss returned yet again after having been replaced by Eric Singer on the 2001 leg of the Farewell Tour.\n\nOn this tour Kiss introduced the \"Platinum\" tickets package, with the most expensive packages costing USD $1,000. This package included a seat in the first five rows, a meet-and-greet with Kiss after their performance, and a photograph with the band. Although this price point caused outrage among some fans, Simmons, in a 2003 interview with \"Classic Rock\" magazine stated, \"we're in our 30th year and still taking $2 million a night on the gate.\"\n\nAdditionally, due to the high price commanded by both bands, regular pavilion seats cost $125 or more. Seats on the lawn, while lower than $100, were still above average in price.\n\nThe tour earned more than US$64 million in 2003, which ranked #7 for the year.\n\nConsidered a co-headlining tour, each band played about 16 songs each, with Kiss playing first and Aerosmith closing the show. Up-and-coming hard rock band Saliva opened the concert, with a set running about 30 minutes.\n\nKiss put on an over-the-top stage spectacle—complete with sophisticated pyrotechnics and their trademark outfits and make-up—including steep-heeled boots. Three original members remained, as Ace Frehley, who had chosen not to return after the Farewell Tour,was replaced with Tommy Thayer.\n\nAerosmith's show consisted of a mix of old and newer material, including a 3-song blues set during the middle of the show, debuting blues tracks to be featured on their then-upcoming album \"Honkin' on Bobo\". The stage design also changed for this section of the show. Aerosmith also played several classic \"deep cuts\" from the 1970s that they hadn't played in years, including \"Adam's Apple\" and \"Nobody's Fault\", among others.\n\nAt a number of performances, including Oklahoma City and Houston, fans got a special treat when Aerosmith guitarist Joe Perry joined Kiss onstage for the song \"Strutter\"; he even donned high-heeled boots, borrowed from Paul Stanley for the song. This was the first time Kiss had had someone outside the band play on stage with them (if not counting \"Unplugged\" and \"Symphony\" concerts, which were special events and not part of any tour).\nTed Nugent was added to the lineup for the show of 7 September in Detroit.\n\n\nOther music was played during the tour: \"Strutter\" \"Hotter Than Hell\" \"King Of The Night Time World\" \"Lick It Up\" and \n\"Heaven's On Fire\".\n\nThis was also the setlist used in the latter half of 2003.\n\nEncores:\n\n", "id": "7734717", "categories": ["Aerosmith concert tours", "2003 concert tours", "Kiss (band) concert tours"], "title": "Rocksimus Maximus Tour/World Domination Tour"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734721", "text": "Wally Carr\n\nWally \"Wait-awhile-Wal\" Carr (11 August 1954 – 13 April 2019) was an Aboriginal Australian professional boxer. A Wiradjuri man who was born and raised in Wellington, New South Wales, Carr held twelve titles across six different divisions across his 15 year career as a boxer. \n\nDescribed by \"Boxing 1970–1980\" as having \"boxing ability to burn\" and \"outstanding skills\", Wally Carr had 100 professional fights. His first fight was in South Sydney Leagues Club in 1971 at the age of 17 and his last fight was in 1986 at the age of 32 when he announced his retirement after fighting Doug Sam at the Bruce Stadium in Canberra.\n\nWith over twelve fights overseas in countries including, Zambia, New Zealand, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea and Fiji, Wally Carr got his first crack at a world title, his 96th fight, when he fought Korean Super-Middleweight, Chong-Pal Park in Seoul in 1984. Wally lost on points.\n\nWally's fighting career spanned Super-Bantamweight to Heavyweight. He fought in 13 divisions, starting out at 8 stone 10 lbs and finishing up at 14 stone 10 lbs. His titles include NSW Welterweight Champion, Australasian Light Middleweight Champion, Australian Junior Middleweight Champion, Australian Middleweight Champion, Commonwealth (British Empire) Middleweight Champion, Australian Super-Middleweight Champion, Australian Light-Heavyweight Champion and Oriental Middleweight Champion.\n\nIn 2010 Gaele Sobott published the biography of Wally Carr titled \"My Longest Round\", which details his life from his earliest memories in Wellington, his boxing career, his battle with alcoholism, drug abuse, homelessness, and his final transition to sobriety and happiness. The book was written in close collaboration with Wally Carr over the course of six years.\n\nCarr was selected as the inductee into the 2010 Australian National Boxing Hall of Fame Moderns category in recognition of his achievements.\n\nCarr had four children (three daughters and one son) and two grandchildren. He was the grandfather of NRL player Josh Addo-Carr.\n\nWally Carr died on 13 April 2019 due to stomach cancer.\n\n", "id": "7734721", "categories": ["2019 deaths", "1954 births", "Indigenous Australian boxers", "Deaths from stomach cancer", "Australian male boxers", "Deaths from cancer in New South Wales"], "title": "Wally Carr"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734727", "text": "Anoma River\n\nThe Anoma is a river in southern Nepal, near Kapilavastu, where Prince Siddhartha renounced the world before becoming Gautama Buddha by cutting off his hair, abandoning his royal dress and exchanging it for the robes of an ascetic. Chinese pilgrims have also recorded the position and the importance of the Anoma river in Nepal.\n\n<https://web.archive.org/web/20070705015654/http://www.lumbini.info/sacredgeography.asp>\n", "id": "7734727", "categories": ["Rivers of Nepal"], "title": "Anoma River"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734735", "text": "WMRZ\n\nWMRZ (98.1 FM) is a radio station broadcasting an Urban Adult Contemporary format. Licensed to Dawson, Georgia, United States, the station serves the Albany area. The station is currently owned by iHeartMedia, Inc..\n\nThe station was assigned call sign WMRZ on September 25, 1997. On May 5, 2003, the station changed its call sign to the current WMRZ. The station shares the same logo with sister station KISQ San Francisco.\n", "id": "7734735", "categories": ["IHeartMedia radio stations", "Radio stations in Georgia (U.S. state)", "Urban adult contemporary radio stations", "Radio stations established in 1997"], "title": "WMRZ"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734758", "text": "Tom Brady (film director)\n\nThomas Adam Brady is an American writer, film director and producer.\n\nTom Brady was raised in New Jersey. He began writing and acting during high school, earning him a scholarship to Harvard College. At Harvard, where he graduated in 1986 with a B.A. in English Literature, Brady acted in and directed various theater productions, and began writing his own plays and screenplays. Afterwards, he attended the theater department of the University of Hawaii to get a Master of Fine Arts - Directing.\n\nAfter being invited to work for Mike Reiss and Al Jean, Brady went on to write and produce episodes of \"The Critic\" and \"The Simpsons\", which he would follow with other television work such as \"Home Improvement\", \"Men Behaving Badly\", \"Sports Night\", and \"Good Vibes\". Film credits include \"The Animal\", \"The Hot Chick\", \"The Comebacks\", and \"\". Tom is Executive Producer of the FX television series \"Chozen\".\n", "id": "7734758", "categories": ["University of Hawaii alumni", "Harvard College alumni", "Year of birth missing (living people)", "Living people", "Film directors from New Jersey", "Writers from Bayonne, New Jersey"], "title": "Tom Brady (film director)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734759", "text": "Craig Peyton\n\nCraig Peyton (born 1953) is a vibraphonist, drummer, keyboardist, and film producer.\n\nPeyton's production, writing, and arranging skills contributed to many music hits, including Peyton's own \"Latitude, 40 Degrees North\". In the 1980s and 1990s Peyton worked with artists including James Brown, Melba Moore, Nona Hendrix, Levon Helms, and Dan Hartman. Peyton has written underscore music for Friends, the Smithsonian, PBS \"Nature\" series, and many TV productions and jingles.\n\nPeyton is a Jazz Vibraphone player and drummer by training. However, with his music releases, including titles with Narada Records and Positive Records, he made use of the Fairlight Digital Computer keyboard system exclusively. In the 1990s Craig released an acid jazz project with former Ray Charles arranger David Hoffman as well as Paul Adams.\n\nIn 1991 Peyton founded \"EarthFlight Media\", a multi media production and music company that combined his passion for flying, filming, and music. A 5,000-hour instrument rated pilot, Peyton learned the craft of aerial cinematography flying his aircraft, a Mooney 201, while filming a full-length music video to support his \"Latitude, 40 Degrees North\" audio CD.\n\nThe Outdoor Life Network had Peyton fly throughout North America filming nature backdrops for a news info program. Peyton produced a one-hour show for Speed Vision titled \"The Rebirth of Civil Aviation\". Peyton hosted BET's \"Jazz Central\" program, featuring many of his aerial \"Visual Music\" productions. This led to an appearance on the CNN Morning News, discussing music and aerial photography.\n\nPeyton's industrial work includes turnkey productions for major aviation companies as, UPS Aero, Sennheiser, Extra Aircraft, Oxford Aviation, EADS Socata, Northstar Avionics, JP Instruments and many others. Peyton's aerial photography has contributed to many films like \"Along Came Polly\", \"The Punisher\", \"Storm\", \"Island of Doctor Moreau\", \"What the Bleep\", and music videos including Jay-Z, Beyoncé Knowles, and TLC, as well as numerous TV and feature releases.\n\nIn 2001 Craig Peyton was diagnosed with Stage IV esophageal cancer. He was able to be healed with an experimental procedure involving radiation, chemo, and dietary changes, as well as with the daily help of an energetic healer. As part of his healing process, this healer (Sarah) advised him to spend a few hours a day in and on water. Craig bought a kayak and spent many months floating on the Hudson River. Inspired by the beautiful crystal photographs of water in Dr. Masaru Emoto's book \"Messages from Water\", Craig began a journey photographing the healing rhythms and qualities of water. Adding his music and nature sounds, this project became the \"Spirit of Water\" DVD. In 2012 Craig published \"Cloudman, Surviving Stage IV Cancer, A New Beginning\" as a kindle book.\n\n", "id": "7734759", "categories": ["Living people", "American film producers", "Place of birth missing (living people)", "American record producers", "1953 births"], "title": "Craig Peyton"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734799", "text": "Saint Louis University School of Law\n\nSaint Louis University School of Law, also known as SLU LAW, is a private American law school located in St. Louis, Missouri. It is one of the professional graduate schools of Saint Louis University. Opened in 1843, it is the first law school west of the Mississippi River. The school has been ABA approved since 1924 and is a member of the Association of American Law Schools. Housed in Scott Hall, the law school has the highest enrollment of law students in Missouri. It offers both full- and part-time programs. The school is home to the University's Vincent C. Immel Law Library, one of the largest law libraries in the state of Missouri. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas studied for his bar exam at the old Omer Poos Law Library on the main SLU campus.\n\nIt was the first ABA law school in St. Louis to accept African-American students. In 1908, the law school accepted its first female law students. In the fall of 2013, the school moved to its current location, Scott Hall, a new facility in Downtown St. Louis. According to SLU LAW's 2013 ABA-required disclosures, 55.5% of the Class of 2013 obtained full-time, long-term, JD-required employment nine months after graduation.\n\nMost students are enrolled in the full-time J.D. program. SLU LAW has the only part-time J.D. program in St. Louis. The school also offers dual-degree programs and an LL.M in Health Law and an LL.M Program in American Law for Foreign Lawyers.\n\nDuring their first year, full-time students are required to take 15 hours per semester to complete the core courses . After the first year, full-time upper-division students select from more than 150 hours of upper-division course electives to complete the required 91 credit hours. Of the remaining 61 credit hours, only the following are required courses: 1) Legal Profession; 2) a seminar of the student's choice; 3) a humanities course and 4) a professional skills courses.\n\nThere is an evening program with classes three to four nights a week; students in this program can earn their Juris Doctor degree in four to five years.\n\nSince its establishment before 1990, the Center for Health Law Studies is consistently listed first in health law by \"U.S. News & World Report\". . The Center has eleven full-time faculty members who publish work in law, medicine and ethical journals. It offers a broad range of health law courses taught by full-time faculty, including foundational and specialized health law courses each semester.\n\nThe Center for International and Comparative Law promotes international legal scholarship in the law school. Faculty members teach pragmatic and theory based courses, such as public international law, international trade, multinational corporate responsibility, international tax, comparative law, immigration law, comparative criminal law, gender rights and international human rights. Speakers and practitioners are also invited to the school to discuss and teach. Students are eligible to earn a certificate from the Center, as well as study abroad in Madrid, Berlin, Orléans, Paris, Bochum, and Cork. The Center also has a Jessup Moot Court Team, which advanced on to the semi-final rounds of the Southwest Super Regionals in 2009 in Houston, Texas, and subsequently won third place for best brief overall.\n\nThe Center's extensive curriculum offers a range of courses addressing the rights and responsibilities of employers and employees, including the prohibition of discrimination; establishment of collective bargaining relationships in the private and public sector; regulation of employee benefits, health and safety in the workplace; and arbitration and mediation of labor and employment disputes. To obtain a certificate in employment law, students complete 11 hours of approved coursework in the employment field and write a paper of publishable quality on an employment law topic in addition to receiving a J.D. degree. All students in the Certificate program take the basic law labor course. The Center enhances the students' exposure to critical issues in labor and employment law by presenting conferences that explore current significant topics in the field. Every year, the student-sponsored Employment Law Association and the Center offer a variety of extra-curricular programs for students .\n\nThrough the Center for the Interdisciplinary Study of Law & Advocacy (CISLA), established in 2011, current and future lawyers can improve f skills to use in further advancing change, advocacy and legal theory. The Center brings together two distinct areas of legal education – scholarly research and experiential practice – under the umbrella of interdisciplinary studies. It includes collaboration with scholars, professors, the judiciary, lawyers and professionals in complementary areas of study and research including psychology, anthropology, economics and communications, The Center will sponsor lectures, symposia, research initiatives and other educational events that showcase advocacy across different disciplines.\n\nSLU LAW professors and students annually provide more than 39,000 hours of free legal service, totaling an estimated $3.9 million, to the community through the School of Law's Legal Clinics and public service programs. The Legal Clinics offer SLU LAW upper division students practical experience while providing legal services to the community. Students are able to appear in court on cases under Missouri's Student Practice Rule. A full-time faculty member supervises the in-house students.\n\n\n\nThe school offers \"concentrations\" in business transaction law, civil litigation skills, criminal litigation skills, employment law, health law, intellectual property law, international & comparative law, taxation, and urban development, land use and environment law. Each of these concentrations has different requirements, allowing students to specialize their legal education.\n\nFirst-year students take four final examinations each semester, one for each class other than legal research and writing. All other students self-schedule their exams. Generally the exam period is two weeks long; graduating students are required to complete exams in a shorter time. Students may choose between typing their exams on laptop computers or handwriting them. As at most other law schools, exams are graded on a curve determined by the section.\n\nThe 75th to 25th percentile of undergraduate GPA for the fall 2012 entering class was 3.7-3.23. The 75th to 25th percentile of LSAT score was 159-151.\n\nSLU LAW is located in Scott Hall, a 12-story facility located at 100 N. Tucker Blvd. in downtown St. Louis. The building contains classrooms, the law library, the school's administrative and faculty offices, event space, and a restaurant called \"The Docket.\" The legal clinics are housed on the 7th floor of the building. The 12th floor, which was added to the building during renovations, is almost entirely glass, offering views of the surrounding downtown area from the courtroom and indoor/outdoor event areas. The school's downtown location puts it in close proximity to many law firms and city, state and federal courts.\n\nPrior to Scott Hall, the law school was housed in three buildings on the main SLU campus in Midtown. Morrissey Hall housed the bulk of the law school, including the law library, four large lecture halls, faculty offices, and some administrative space. Queen's Daughters Hall is a historic building and housed the rest of the administrative offices and meeting rooms. The law school also had a separate clinic building located on Spring Street, one block from the main building. The clinic was renovated and enlarged in 2008.\n\nIn the 2016 U.S. News & World Report rankings, Saint Louis University School of Law was ranked 82 in \"Best Law Schools\" list. SLU's Center for Health Law Studies is ranked the No. 1 program in the country. In the new 2012 category \"When Lawyers Do the Grading,\" the School of Law was ranked 67 by recruiters and hiring partners at highly rated firms.\n\nThe school has three student-edited academic law journals:\n\nThe \"Saint Louis Brief\" is a publication about the law school that is distributed to alumni and supporters.\n\nStudents at one time published the \"1843 Reporter\", an independent student newspaper administered and funded without assistance from the school. It published bi-monthly and sought to foster a sense of community and on-campus dialogue, as well as provide an outlet for students wishing to publish in a non-journal forum.\n\nSaint Louis University School of Law has nearly 30 student organizations. The organizations' funding is distributed in part by the law school's student government, the Student Bar Association (SBA). Organizations include:\n\n\nThe Saint Louis University School of Law Class of 2017 reported a 92.14% employment rate for graduates employed in both full-time bar passage required (77.77% of graduates) and full-time JD advantage (14.37% of graduates) positions as of March 15, 2018. http://law.slu.edu/employment-statistics\n\nThe total cost of attendance (indicating the cost of tuition, fees, and living expenses) at SLU LAW for the 2014-2015 academic year is $59,608. The Law School Transparency estimated debt-financed cost of attendance for three years is $220,008.\n\n\n\nIn August 2012, Saint Louis University School of Law's Dean, Annette Clark, resigned from her deanship by sending a resignation letter to the university. She claimed that the university was operating \"outside the bounds of common decency, collegiality, professionalism and integrity.\" Clark argued that the university was using the law school to subsidize university operations and she sharply criticized Lawrence Biondi, the university president. The university responded by stating that it intended to fire her prior to the resignation letter. The university then appointed Thomas Q. Keefe as interim dean. Keefe is a personal injury attorney and member of the Saint Louis University board of trustees, but had no other experience with teaching or academia.\n\nOn March 4, 2013, Keefe announced he was stepping down, saying he \"made politically incorrect statements to faculty and was not a good fit for the position.\" The statements included one comment perceived as sexual harassment and another where Keefe said he had gotten \"drunker than 10 big Indians.\" He does not deny making the statements.\n\nMichael A. Wolff, former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Missouri, was named dean on March 7, 2013. Wolff retired in January 2017.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7734799", "categories": ["Saint Louis University School of Law", "Saint Louis University", "Jesuit education", "Law schools in Missouri", "1843 establishments in Missouri", "Jesuit universities and colleges in the United States", "Educational institutions established in 1843"], "title": "Saint Louis University School of Law"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734810", "text": "Tsaganomyidae\n\nThe Tsaganomyidae are an extinct family of rodents from Asia. It contains three genera. Tsaganomyids are generally considered to be related to the Hystricognathi (porcupines and relatives). Members of Tsaganomyidae were fossorial (digging) rodents that probably used their incisor teeth to dig like some living mole rats.\n\nTsaganomyids had a protrogomorphous zygomasseteric system, a hystricognathous lower jaw, and multiserial enamel in their incisor teeth.\n", "id": "7734810", "categories": ["Rupelian first appearances", "Miocene extinctions", "Prehistoric rodent families"], "title": "Tsaganomyidae"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734811", "text": "USCGC Bear (WMEC-901)\n\nFor previous namesake see USS Bear (1874)\n\nUSCGC \"Bear\" (WMEC-901) is a United States Coast Guard medium endurance cutter. She was laid down August 23, 1979 and launched September 25, 1980 by the Tacoma Boatbuilding Company of Tacoma, Washington. She was commissioned February 4, 1983. She was named for USRC \"Bear\" (AG-29), a steam barquentine that was built in Scotland and served the United States Treasury Department in the United States Revenue Cutter Service's Alaskan Patrol.\n\nIn 1986, \"Bear\" responded to the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster by searching over 1900 square nautical miles (6,500 km²). During any given patrol, \"Bear\" conducts a wide-spectrum of missions such as search and rescue, alien migrant interdiction operations, counter-drug patrols, fisheries enforcement, and international engagement—illustrating the versatile, multi-mission character of the Coast Guard and the cutter fleet. Since her commissioning she has made 18 significant drug seizures involving 12 marijuana and 6 cocaine busts.\n\nIn 1999 the \"Bear\" was deployed with the USS Theodore Roosevelt (CVN-71) Battle Group to support NATO combat operations during Operation Allied Force. During this the \"Bear\" performed various mission such as surface surveillance, provided backup Search and Rescue response, combat escort for US Army transport vessels in areas where the cutter was well within range of enemy missiles, and provided force protection for the Amphibious Ready Group operating near Albania. Vice Admiral Murphy stated how well and how seamlessly the \"Bear\" and her crew performed naval operations. This was due to the \"Bears\" interoperability, crew training and knowledge in naval warfare and naval war fighting doctrine, and adequate weaponry. The \"Bear\" was awarded the Kosovo Campaign Medal and the NATO Kosovo Medal.\n\n", "id": "7734811", "categories": ["1980 ships", "Ships of the United States Coast Guard", "Famous-class cutters", "Ships built in Washington (state)"], "title": "USCGC Bear (WMEC-901)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734825", "text": "UTMB\n\nUTMB may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7734825", "categories": [], "title": "UTMB"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734844", "text": "My Own Way EP\n\nMy Own Way EP is the third EP by Evermore, released on 11 September 2001. Evermore made two music videos from the EP, one for \"Hold Off\" and one for \"My Own Way\"\n\n", "id": "7734844", "categories": ["2003 EPs", "Evermore (band) albums"], "title": "My Own Way EP"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734861", "text": "Paliouri\n\nPaliouri (Greek: Παλιούρι) may refer to the following settlements in Greece:\n\n", "id": "7734861", "categories": [], "title": "Paliouri"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734862", "text": "Sunday in New York\n\nSunday in New York is a 1963 American Metrocolor romantic comedy film directed by Peter Tewksbury and starring Jane Fonda, Rod Taylor and Cliff Robertson. The soundtrack score was composed and performed by Peter Nero although Mel Tormé contributed the vocals for the title song.\n\nEileen Tyler (Fonda), a 22-year-old music critic for the \"Albany Times Union\", is suffering from her breakup with Russ (Robert Culp) from a rich Albany family. She comes to New York City to visit her brother Adam (Robertson), who is an airline pilot. Eileen confides to her brother that she thinks she may be the only 22-year-old virgin left in the world. Adam assures her that sex is not what all men look for and insists he hasn't slept around. Of course, Adam is lying and is in hot pursuit of a tryst with his occasional girlfriend Mona. However, Adam's date with Mona has a series of job-related interruptions. Meanwhile, Eileen decides to see if she can have some fun in New York, and seems to find the perfect candidate in Mike (Taylor), a man she meets on the bus. But things get complicated when Russ pops in with a proposal and a mistaken assumption. Mike later confesses to Eileen his feelings whereby she has a change of heart.\n\n\nThe screenplay by Norman Krasna was adapted from his play, which had been produced on Broadway by David Merrick starring Robert Redford and directed by Garson Kanin. It ran for 188 performances.\n\nHedda Hopper reported in November 1960 that Krasna was writing the play in Switzerland, where he had a home. The play was optioned by David Merrick who arranged Garson Kanin to direct. (Kanin had directed Krasna's script for \"Bachelor Mother\" in 1939). Kanin called it Krasna's \"best play, with a lot of feeling and very funny. \n\nPeter Graves and Jane Fonda were discussed as leads in the play. Then in May 1961 Carroll Baker was mooted as star. Baker ended up going into \"Come on Strong\" a play written by Kanin. The lead roles went to Pat Stanley, Robert Redford and Conrad Janis. Rehearsals took place in October 1961.\n\nThe \"New York Times\" called it \"inventive and chic. Only the substance is familiar and thin.\" Walter Kerr called it a \"sentimentalised farce... precisely the kind of echo chamber exercise that drives intelligent young theatregoers to complete despair.\"\n\nThe show closed in May 1962 after 189 performances.\n\nThe play ran for two years in Paris, and had a successful run in Los Angeles in a production starring Marlo Thomas.\nThe show was seen by Eliot Hyman and Ray Stark of Seven Arts Productions who \"thought it would make a good movie,\" according to Stark. Other companies were interested in film rights but they called Krasna direct in Switzerland and did the deal. The rights cost $150,000 plus a percentage of the gross.\n\nThe film was a part of a multi-picture deal between Seven Arts and MGM. Lead roles originally were offered to Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty, who turned them down.\n\nPeter Tewksbury, best known for his work in TV, signed to direct.\n\nIn a review of the playwright's \"frank screen version\" of the play, Bosley Crowther characterized the film as another in a series of films that dwelled on a subject first brought to the screen ten years earlier in \"The Moon Is Blue\": \"There once was a time when the candor of Mr. Krasna's mildly popular Broadway play about an Albany girl who struggles bravely with the problem of her virtue during a rainy afternoon in New York might have caused the Production Code people a moment or two of anxious pause. They might then have thought it a bit too racy for youthful and innocent ears\"; on the film itself, Crowther said \"the extent of the film's disconcertion and delight for a viewer will depend upon how prone one may be to a juvenile quandary and to the nimble performing of a pleasant cast. The twists of the plot are downright hackneyed—the confusions of opening the wrong doors, mistaking people and getting caught in \"dishabille\". But the actors are all attractive, and so long as one can go along with them in their valiant attempts at pretending this is hot stuff, one may have a good time.\"\n\nAccording to \"Time\" magazine, \"\"Sunday in New York\" is another brightly salacious Hollywood comedy about the way of a man with a maid who just may. 'This motion picture,' leers an announcement flashed on the screen as a teaser, 'is dedicated to the proposition that every girl gets...sooner or later.' As usual, winking wickedness turns out to be mostly eyewash, but the plot—more to be pitied than censored—gets a buoyant lift from stars Jane Fonda, Cliff Robertson and Rod Taylor. All three abandon themselves to the film version of Norman Krasna's trite Broadway farce with disarming faith, as though one more glossy, glittering package of pseudo sex might save the world.\"\n\n\n", "id": "7734862", "categories": ["American films based on plays", "Directorial debut films", "Films directed by Peter Tewksbury", "Films set in New York City", "American romantic comedy films", "1960s romantic comedy films", "English-language films", "American films", "1963 films"], "title": "Sunday in New York"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734912", "text": "Invicta Watch Group\n\nInvicta Watch Group is a Swiss watch company which trades under the name \"Invicta Watch Company\". The brand's website says that it was founded in 1837 by Raphael Picard in La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland, although president of the Group, Eyal Lalo, says it was established in 1886 in an interview with \"timezone.com\" in 2000.\n\nThe corporate headquarters for Invicta are located in Hollywood, Florida, in the United States.\n\nThe president of the Invicta Watch Group, Eyal Lalo, says he is \"a third-generation watchmaker from a family in Switzerland\".\n\nSome of Invicta’s brands include: Invicta, TechnoMarine, S. Coifman, Glycine Watch Group, and Imperious.\n\nIn November 2012, Invicta announced a line of watches that are endorsed and designed by hall of Fame NFL player Jason Taylor.\n", "id": "7734912", "categories": ["Companies established in 1837", "Watch brands"], "title": "Invicta Watch Group"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734924", "text": "Dianora Niccolini\n\nDianora Niccolini (born October 1936, Florence, Italy) is a fine art photographer who known for her photography of the male nude. She was President of Professional Women Photographers (PWP) from 1979 until 1984.\n\nNiccolini's work has had multiple gallery showings and has been published in many magazines and over twenty anthologies. In November 2014, Emory University's Manuscript, Archives and Rare Book Library (MARBL) in Atlanta, Georgia acquired Niccolini's photographs, artwork, and papers.\n\nAlthough Niccolini's specialty was in photographing the male nude, this was a style relegated to homosexual circles and was considered taboo at the time. In 1975, however, the Third Eye Gallery in New York City gave Niccolini a solo exhibition. The exhibition was titled \"The Male Nude\". This was the first gallery exhibit of male nudes by anyone, and is thought to have legitimized and de-stigmatized the male nude in the art community. Her body studies have been included in many photographic anthologies and were also widely exhibited in the mid-seventies and pre-dated Mapplethorpe's images of body builders by several years.\n\nNiccolini went on to be the first president Professional Women Photographers, serving from 1979 to 1984. Under her leadership, Professional Women Photographers became recognized as a leading professional organization for women photographers.\n\nIn early 2005, Niccolini began working with Mega Muscle Productions, a publisher of images of male fitness models.\nIn 2011, the Florida Museum of Photographic Arts in Tampa, Florida, mounted a solo exhibition of Niccolini's photography. The exhibition, \"Celebration of the Body: The Works of Dianora Niccolini\", ran from November 17, 2011 through January 8, 2012.\n\n", "id": "7734924", "categories": ["Italian photographers", "People from Florence", "Living people", "1936 births", "20th-century women artists", "Women photographers"], "title": "Dianora Niccolini"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734968", "text": "List of trademarked open-source software\n\nThis is a list of free/open-source software whose names are covered by registered trademarks. As many countries provide some form of basic protection for unregistered (common law) trademarks, nearly any free or open-source software title may be trademarked under common law. This list covers software whose trademarks are registered under a country's intellectual property body.\n", "id": "7734968", "categories": ["Free software lists and comparisons", "Trademark law"], "title": "List of trademarked open-source software"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734970", "text": "Canon PowerShot S80\n\nThe Canon PowerShot S80 is an 8.0 megapixel digital camera originally released in 2005. The PowerShot S80 is the successor of Canon PowerShot S70.\n\n\n", "id": "7734970", "categories": ["Canon PowerShot cameras"], "title": "Canon PowerShot S80"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734991", "text": "Hiralal Sen\n\nHiralal Sen (, \"Hiralal Shen\") (2 August 1866 – 26 October 1917) is generally considered as one of India's first filmmakers. A noted photographer, he is also credited with creating India's first advertising films and quite possibly India's first political film. A fire in 1917 destroyed all of his films.\n\nHiralal Sen's native home was in \"Bagjuri\", a village in Manikganj, approximately 80 km from Dhaka, the present-day capital of Bangladesh. Although he was the son of a successful lawyer of a Baidya \"zamindar\" family of that region, he grew up in Calcutta. In 1898, a film troupe en route to Paris screened a certain Professor Stevenson's short film along with the stage show, \"The Flower of Persia\" at the Star Theatre in Calcutta. Borrowing Stevenson's camera, Sen made his first film, \"A Dancing Scene\" from the opera \"The Flower of Persia\". With assistance from his brother, Motilal Sen, he bought an Urban Bioscope from Charles Urban's Warwick Trading Company in London. In the following year, with his brother, he formed the Royal Bioscope company.\n\nIn a creative career that extended up to 1913, Hiralal Sen made over forty short films. Most of the films he made depicted scenes from theatrical productions played at Amarendra Dutta's Classic Theatre in Calcutta. At that time raw film was imported into the country. Between 1901 and 1904, he produced many films for Classic Theatre including \"Bhramar\", \"Hariraj\", and \"Buddhadev\". His longest film, produced in 1903 and titled \"Alibaba and the Forty Thieves\", was also based on an original Classic Theatre performance. However, not much is known about this feature film since it was never screened. He also produced a number of advertising films and newsfilms taking commissions. Having made two films advertising Jabakusum Hair Oil and Edwards Tonic, he became the first Indian to use film for advertising purposes.\n\nIn 1905, Sen advertised a \"genuine Swadeshi film of our own make\". Documenting the \"Anti-Partition Demonstration and Swadeshi movement at the Town Hall, Calcutta, on the 22nd September 1905\", it is, according to critic Samik Bandyopadhyay, India's first political film. \n\nRoyal Bioscope made its last film in 1913. Hiralal Sen's later years were filled with disappointment and economic hardship. Jamshedji Framji Madan of the Elphinstone Bioscope Company had long surpassed him in terms of success. To compound his misery, he was also suffering from cancer. A few days before his death in 1917, a fire broke out destroying every film he ever made.\n\n", "id": "7734991", "categories": ["Bengali film directors", "Bengali film producers", "Indian documentary filmmakers", "1917 deaths", "20th-century Indian film directors", "1866 births", "Indian silent film producers"], "title": "Hiralal Sen"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734992", "text": "Richard A. Chaifetz School of Business\n\nRichard A. Chaifetz School of Business is the business school of Saint Louis University, a Jesuit, Catholic university located in St. Louis, Missouri. It is named after Richard Chaifetz, Chairman and C.E.O. of ComPsych Corp., following his $27 million gift to the university. The school's Richard A. Chaifetz Center for Entrepreneurship consistently ranks in the Top 10 and, in 2010, was ranked \"Top 5 for Entrepreneurs\" by Fortune (magazine). The school's undergraduate business program ranks #71 in the US according to U.S. News & World Report. In 2019, four of the school's graduate programs were internationally ranked, including Entrepreneurship (No. 12), International Business (No. 13), Supply Chain Management (No. 15), and Accounting (No. 28).\nThe business school was founded in 1910 and is the oldest business school west of the Mississippi River and 15th oldest in the United States. The Richard A. Chaifetz School of Business undergraduate and graduate programs are accredited by AACSB International—the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, the premier accrediting agency for degree programs in business—in which it earned accreditation in 1948. Less than 5% of business schools worldwide have earned accreditation. The student body includes more than 1,700 undergraduates and graduates. \n\nThrough a comprehensive curriculum including studies in Arts & Science, all business disciplines, as well as advanced courses in a specific concentration.\n\nRichard A. Chaifetz School of Business offers five graduate business programs. Additionally, graduates have the option of pursuing joint degrees. MBA dual degrees are offered with the Law School and the Medical School.\n\nThe center is dedicated to supply chain management education and workshops and affiliated with leading companies and organizations such as NCMA, APICS, CSCMP to name a few.\n\nThe school offers a variety of executive education programs, namely the Executive Masters of International Business [EMIB] program. It is a 21-month program in which students are exposed to several areas of business coursework.\n\nAs of 2012, the business school offers a certification program in ethics and compliance management. Successful completion of the course and final exam will result in the Certified in Ethics and Compliance Management (CECM) credential.\n\nIn 2000, the business school opened John and Lucy Cook Hall. The building is large and houses a 280-seat auditorium. The school is home to the Boeing Institute of International Business, U.S. Bank Advancing Women in Leadership Program, Emerson Ethics Center, Smurfit-Stone Center for Entrepreneurship, Simon Center for Regional Economic Forecasting & Center for Supply Chain Management.\n\nThe MBA program at SLU's Richard A. Chaifetz School of Business climbed from #94 in 2012 to #81 in 2013 as published by U.S. News. U.S. News has also ranked the Richard A. Chaifetz School of Business' Entrepreneurship, International Business, and Supply Chain Management programs in the top 20, and its undergraduate program among the top 100 in the United States. Specifically, in 2012, U.S. News has ranked SLU's MBA in entrepreneurship at No. 13 in the nation, and SLU's undergraduate entrepreneurship program at No. 13, while its Entrepreneurship program has also been ranked highly by Entrepreneur Magazine. \"Fortune\" ranked SLU's entrepreneurship program as one of the \"Top 5 for Entrepreneurs\" in 2010. The Part-Time MBA Program was ranked by U.S. News at No. 14 in the nation in 2012, but fell to No. 37 in 2013. Bloomberg Businessweek ranks SLU's Richard A. Chaifetz School of Business Part-time MBA at #5 in the Midwest.\n", "id": "7734992", "categories": ["Saint Louis University", "Universities and colleges in Missouri", "Educational institutions established in 1910", "Business schools in Missouri"], "title": "Richard A. Chaifetz School of Business"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735003", "text": "Funny Farm (TV series)\n\nThe Funny Farm was a Canadian television series shown on CTV during the 1974-1975 season.\n\nBlake Emmons was host of the half-hour series, which was derivative of the more successful American \"Hee Haw\" series. The first episode was broadcast on 12 September 1974 and only one season was produced. The programme continued to be broadcast on CTV for at least two seasons, and was still airing as late as 1976. The cast included Bruce Gordon (credited as Ben Gordon), John Evans, Monica Parker, Yank Azman (credited as Jank Zajfman), Jayne Eastwood, Valri Bromfield and Linda Rennhoffer.\n\n", "id": "7735003", "categories": ["1975 Canadian television series endings", "CTV Television Network shows", "1974 Canadian television series debuts", "1970s Canadian sketch comedy television series"], "title": "Funny Farm (TV series)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735007", "text": "Any Wednesday\n\nAny Wednesday is a 1966 American Technicolor romantic comedy film starring Jane Fonda, Jason Robards, and Dean Jones. It was directed by Robert Ellis Miller from a screenplay by producer Julius J. Epstein based on the hit play of the same name by Muriel Resnik, which played on Broadway for 984 performances from 1964 to 1966. The film was titled Bachelor Girl Apartment in the UK.\n\nThe story centers on a Manhattan woman (Fonda) who is trying to decide between two suitors, one married (Robards) and one not (Jones), on the day of her 30th birthday.\n\nJohn Cleves (Jason Robards) is a businessman with an office in New York and a home in New Jersey. On one day of each week, Wednesday, he spends the night in the city, lying to wife Dorothy (Rosemary Murphy) that he is out of town on business when he actually is seeing Ellen, his mistress (Jane Fonda).\n\nA business client from Akron, Ohio, Cass Henderson (Dean Jones), comes to town and is unable to find a hotel room for the night. Cleves' new secretary knows of an \"executive suite\" the boss maintains in town, so Cass is sent there for the night. When he meets Ellen, he mistakenly assumes she is a certain kind of lady hired by Cleves to entertain him.\n\nThe secretary compounds the error by telling Dorothy about the apartment. Dorothy goes there and discovers Ellen and Cass, assuming them to be a young couple. The women take a liking to each other so Dorothy invites them to spend an evening out on the town with her and John.\n\nDorothy eventually catches on to what her husband is up to and leaves him. Ellen invites her to use the apartment. John goes there and tries to win his wife's love back, but she just tells her husband to come visit her on any Wednesday.\n\n\nExterior location scenes for \"Any Wednesday\" were filmed in Manhattan, New York City.\n\nDuring the course of the 28-month run of the play \"Any Wednesday\" on Broadway, the role of Ellen was played by Sandy Dennis – who won a Tony Award for her performance – and Barbara Cook. Don Porter and Gene Hackman also appeared in it.\n\nRichard F. Shepard of \"The New York Times\" was fairly positive, writing that the story had made the transition from stage to screen \"not much the worse for wear,\" though he felt \"it might have been better if it were shorter. The funny lines, and there are a good number, would have been even sharper.\" \"Variety\" called it \"an outstanding sophisticated comedy\" with \"solid direction and excellent performances.\" Philip K. Scheuer of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote, \"Neither Jason Robards nor Jane Fonda strikes me particularly as a 'natural' comedian (whatever that may be) and the timing of both seems off ... In the case of Robards, a superior actor whenever he is permitted to be, I must admit to some surprise that he was willing to waste his time and talents on such a contrived and cinematically weak affair as this.\" Richard L. Coe of \"The Washington Post\" called Fonda \"miscast\" because she \"is simply not the sort of girl who doesn't know what she is doing.\" He thought Rosemary Murphy stole the film with an \"immensely amusing\" performance. \"The Monthly Film Bulletin\" wrote, \"A moderately entertaining film version of a Broadway stage production; but it could have been much more so if director Robert Ellis Miller had a lighter touch.\"\n\nJane Fonda was nominated for a 1966 Golden Globe Award in the category \"Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy\".\n\nOn August 18, 2009, Warner Home Video released the movie on DVD-R as part of the Warner Archive Collection.\n\n\nNotes\n", "id": "7735007", "categories": ["American films based on plays", "Directorial debut films", "American sex comedy films", "Films set in New York City", "1966 films", "American romantic comedy films", "1960s romantic comedy films", "Films directed by Robert Ellis Miller", "Adultery in films", "English-language films", "American films", "Films scored by George Duning", "Films shot in New York City"], "title": "Any Wednesday"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735022", "text": "Cage (graph theory)\n\nIn the mathematical area of graph theory, a cage is a regular graph that has as few vertices as possible for its girth.\n\nFormally, an (\"r\",\"g\")-graph is defined to be a graph in which each vertex has exactly \"r\" neighbors, and in which the shortest cycle has length exactly \"g\". It is known that an (\"r\",\"g\")-graph exists for any combination of \"r\" ≥ 2 and \"g\" ≥ 3. An (\"r\",\"g\")-cage is an (\"r\",\"g\")-graph with the fewest possible number of vertices, among all (\"r\",\"g\")-graphs.\n\nIf a Moore graph exists with degree \"r\" and girth \"g\", it must be a cage. Moreover, the bounds on the sizes of Moore graphs generalize to cages: any cage with odd girth \"g\" must have at least\n\nvertices, and any cage with even girth \"g\" must have at least\n\nvertices. Any (\"r\",\"g\")-graph with exactly this many vertices is by definition a Moore graph and therefore automatically a cage.\n\nThere may exist multiple cages for a given combination of \"r\" and \"g\". For instance there are three nonisomorphic (3,10)-cages, each with 70 vertices : the Balaban 10-cage, the Harries graph and the Harries–Wong graph. But there is only one (3,11)-cage : the Balaban 11-cage (with 112 vertices).\n\nA degree-one graph has no cycle, and a connected degree-two graph has girth equal to its number of vertices, so cages are only of interest for \"r\" ≥ 3. The (\"r\",3)-cage is a complete graph \"K\" on \"r\"+1 vertices, and the (\"r\",4)-cage is a complete bipartite graph \"K\" on 2\"r\" vertices.\n\nOther notable cages include the Moore graphs:\n\nThe numbers of vertices in the known (\"r\",\"g\") cages, for values of \"r\" > 2 and \"g\" > 2, other than projective planes and generalized polygons, are:\nFor large values of \"g\", the Moore bound implies that the number \"n\" of vertices must grow at least singly exponentially as a function of \"g\". Equivalently, \"g\" can be at most proportional to the logarithm of \"n\". More precisely,\nIt is believed that this bound is tight or close to tight . The best known lower bounds on \"g\" are also logarithmic, but with a smaller constant factor (implying that \"n\" grows singly exponentially but at a higher rate than the Moore bound). Specifically, the Ramanujan graphs satisfy the bound\n\nThis bound was improved slightly by .\n\nIt is unlikely that these graphs are themselves cages, but their existence gives an upper bound to the number of vertices needed in a cage.\n\n\n", "id": "7735022", "categories": ["Graph families"], "title": "Cage (graph theory)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735024", "text": "Tezukayama University\n\nTezukayama University has two campuses—one in Gakuen-mae (学園前) in Nara city, and the other in eastern Ikoma (東生駒). Tezukayama University has many facilities in a historical setting.\n\nTezukayama Gakuen was founded with an ideal of creating a new college town in Nara in celebration of Osaka's Tezukayama Gakuin 25th anniversary in 1941.\n\nIn 1961, Tezukayama Women's Junior College was established with two departments, the Department of Arts and Literature and the Department of Family and Consumer Science. In 1964, Tezukayama University was established as a woman's college with the Faculty of Liberal Arts. In 1982, the Tezukayama Archaeological Research Institute was founded (from 1997, reorganized as Research Institute for Archaeology).\n\nTezukayama University was changed to co-education in 1987 with establishing a more faculty, the Faculty of Economics. In 1991, the Graduate School of Economics was established, and in 1993, the doctoral degree program in Economics was established. After that, other faculties and graduate schools were established, such as the Graduate School of Humanities in 1996.\n\nThe Graduate School of Humanities at Tezukayama University is notable in the studies of Traditional Japanese Culture. Both M.A. and Ph.D. degrees are offered by this program. The Ph.D. programs in Law and Policy and Psychology were launched in 2003 and 2012, respectively.\n\n was a private junior college associated with Tezukayama University. The junior college opened in April 1961 by Tezukayama Gakuen Education Group as a women's college. The junior college was affiliated with Tezukayama University from 1964 to 2005. It closed in 2005.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7735024", "categories": ["Universities and colleges in Nara Prefecture", "1961 establishments in Japan", "Private universities and colleges in Japan"], "title": "Tezukayama University"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735073", "text": "Broad Sound (Queensland)\n\nBroad Sound is a large bay on the east coast of Australia, in the state of Queensland 675 km northwest of the state capital, Brisbane. It is about 50 km long and 20 km across at its widest point. The Torilla Peninsula forms the eastern side of the bay; Shoalwater Bay is on the other side of the peninsula. \n\nBritish explorer James Cook, in HMS \"Endeavour\", sighted the bay in May 1770, naming it for its size. The next European navigator in the area was Matthew Flinders in HMS \"Investigator\" in 1802.\n\nThe town of St Lawrence was established midway between Rockhampton and Mackay on St Lawrence Creek and developed as a port for the export of cattle from the hinterland, with a large meatworks built close by in 1893. The processing and export of meat and cattle continued until 1919 when rail links were built elsewhere, making the port redundant. By 2006 the population of St Lawrence had dropped to 125, out of a population in the Broad Sound area of 268.\n\nThe bay has a low-lying coastline with wide mudflats exposed at low tide and backed by extensive areas of mangroves. The head of the bay has the greatest tidal range on Australia’s east coast - around 9 m. The coastline is punctuated by the mangrove-lined estuaries of several rivers and creeks, including Herbert and St Lawrence Creeks and the Styx River. Behind the mangroves is a hinterland of low, rounded hills covered by a mix of grassland and low eucalypt woodland or forest. The climate is subtropical with a dry winter.\n\nThe extensive tracts of mangroves and mudflats, comprising some 1200 km in the southern part of the bay, have been classified by BirdLife International as an Important Bird Area. It supports globally important populations of the straw-necked ibis (with up to 15,000 individual birds), Australian bustard, Latham's snipe, sharp-tailed sandpiper and mangrove honeyeater.\n\n", "id": "7735073", "categories": ["Central Queensland", "Bays of Queensland", "Important Bird Areas of Queensland"], "title": "Broad Sound (Queensland)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735093", "text": "Shane's World\n\nShane's World Studios is a pornographic film company started in 1996. It is one of the first companies to pioneer the reality style videos of adult entertainment. The company was originally started by Seymore Butts' ex-girlfriend Shane, who lent her name to the business. Shane sold the company in 1999 after she decided to get married and leave the adult industry.\n\nShane's World movies revolve around taking porn stars out of their element on trips to exotic or interesting locations and filming everything that happens in a documentary style. The premise of the studio's movies can be summed up as \"\"The Real World\" meets gonzo style pornography\". Shane's World has given many stars their start, which helps to increase their fan base because of the intimate look fans are allowed into their personality.\n\nIn 2003 Shane's World gained mainstream notoriety with the release of \"Shane's World 32: Campus Invasion\". The media interest which followed that trip to Indiana University landed the company on \"Dateline NBC\", \"The O'Reilly Factor\", \"Inside Edition\", \"USA Today\", \"Time\" magazine and MTV News. \"Rolling Stone\" magazine gave Shane's World a four-page spread in their \"100 Greatest Guitarists\" issue. Shane's World also became the first adult company to be featured in an Abercrombie and Fitch catalog.\n\nThe company has been criticized for exploiting drunken college students who will later regret their performance in a porn movie. (Hegan 2003)\n\nDue to the success of \"Shane's World 32\", Shane's World decided that college campuses were an untapped market and so the \"College Invasion\" series began. \"College Invasion\" titles bring porn stars to college campuses to party with the students, and starting with volume 3, the college students often participate and have sex with the porn stars. The studio claims it gets hundreds of invitation letters a month from students across the country who want them to come to their school. The series hit its 11th volume in March 2007.\n\nOn August 29, 2007, Shane's World released its first \"College Invasion Male\" title, a series that sees male porn stars visit gay college parties.\n\nThe company has won several awards within the Adult Entertainment industry, including Best Couples Sex video and Best Couples Sex series, as well as Most Sex-Positive Adult Company by the Sexuality.org awards. College Invasion won 'Best Gonzo Series' at the 2007 AVN Awards.\n\nShane's World Studios also markets a line of adult novelties through Cal Exotics.\nIn October 2008, Shane's World announced that it had launched a competition through its YouTube channel to find the college at which they would shoot the next episode of their College Invasion series. The announcement encouraged non-pornographic clips only of between 1 and 2 minutes in length shot by students on the grounds of their college.\n\n\n", "id": "7735093", "categories": ["American gay pornographic film studios", "Entertainment companies established in 1996", "Film production companies of the United States"], "title": "Shane's World"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735101", "text": "Douglas A. Warner III\n\nDouglas 'Sandy' Warner (born June 9, 1946 as Douglas Alexander Warner III but widely known as \"Sandy\") is an American banker who joined Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York out of college in 1968 as an officer's assistant and rose through the ranks to become chairman of the board of J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. in 2000. Among his many accomplishments, Warner may be best known for spearheading the 2000 sale of J P Morgan & Co. to Chase Manhattan Bank for $30.9 billion.\n\nDouglas Alexander Warner III was born on June 9, 1946 in Cincinnati, Ohio as the elder son to Douglas Alexander Warner Jr. and Eleanor (Wright) W. Warner. He has a brother, Gordon, and a sister, Marjorie. Warner came from money, growing up in the high-toned suburb of Indian Hill in a family with local social standing. For example, Warner's father served as a trustee of the Cincinnati Music Hall Association and Art Museum and chaired the United Appeal one year. Warner's grandfather (and namesake) ran his own insurance firm and was active in local golfing circles. Grandmother Warner was the daughter of a wealthy Cincinnati entrepreneur named J. Stacey Hill, who was the president of a then-prominent thousand-room Cincinnati hotel named Hotel Gibson.\n\nIn 1960 Warner's family shipped the 14-year-old Warner 500 miles away from his home in Ohio to The Hill School, a college-preparatory boarding school in Pottstown, Pennsylvania (it admitted only boys at the time); Warner's father had graduated from the same school in 1937. While a student at The Hill, Warner played junior hockey 1960-61, junior varsity (JV) hockey 1961-62, and varsity hockey 1962-64. Warner graduated from there in 1964, the same year as Academy Award-winning producer/director Oliver Stone.\n\nFrom The Hill School, Warner applied to Yale University, the same school attended by his father and uncle. In 1964, Warner entered Yale University at the age of 18 as a pre-med student. At age 18, Warner was of draft age but most likely held a 2-S (college deferment) Selective Service System classification as a student at Yale University. During his time at Yale, Warner became friends with the future President George W. Bush through then-Yale ice hockey player Roland W. Betts - now owner of the multimillion-dollar Chelsea Piers Sports & Entertainment Complex. This friendship would prove valuable as President Bush later named Warner as a financial adviser to President-elect Bush's transition team in 2000.\n\nAt the peak of the Vietnam war upheaval in the United States in May 1968, Warner graduated from Yale University with a B.A. degree and intended to go to Yale medical school after leaving Yale undergraduate. Without a college deferment, Warner most likely would have been classified as 1-A, that is to say, classified as available immediately for military service. For example, President Bush was classified as 1-A on Bush's graduation from Yale in May 1968 and was accepted into the Texas Air National Guard at the height of the ongoing Vietnam War.\n\nWith the Vietnam war and Yale medical school choices facing Warner, Warner looked to a third option based on advice from his father, an insurance man from Cincinnati, Ohio. Warner's father advised Warner to go into business to develop some \"breadth\" and subsequently Warner entered the management training program at Morgan Guaranty Trust Company in New York City. At that time, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company was a wholly owned subsidiary of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (formerly J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated). Over the next seven years, Warner rapidly advanced from officer's assistant (1968–1970), through assistant treasurer (1970–1972) and assistant Vice President (1972–1975), to Vice President in 1975.\n\nOn May 13, 1977, Warner married Patricia G. Grant and produced four children, Alexander, Katherine, Michael, and Alice (deceased), and now, along with Patricia's brother Thomas, are residents of Locust Valley, N.Y.\n\nIn 1983, at age 37, Warner was transferred to London, England and was named Senior Vice President. First, Warner was in charge of United Kingdom and Scandinavian banking operations and then became the head of oil and gas lending for the region. In becoming the general manager of the London office and Morgan's senior executive in the United Kingdom in 1986, Warner received extensive experience in U.S. and international corporate finance.\n\nIn 1987, Warner was promoted to Executive Vice President and returned to New York city to take charge of North American and South American corporate finance and, later that year, of the entire group worldwide.\n\nIn 1989, Warner became Managing Director of the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company and elected president and a director in 1990. After rising through the ranks in various positions in London and New York City, Warner succeeded Dennis Weatherstone in 1995 as Morgan's youngest CEO ever at age 49. From 1995 to 2000, Warner served as chairman and chief executive officer. In 1999, Warner was ranked 14th of the \"25 Highest Paid Banking Executives in 1999\" with a total compensation for the year of US$9,916,151. In 2000, Warner was mentioned as a possible candidate for President Bush's Treasury secretary along with Enron head Kenneth Lay and a few others. However, Warner was elevated to chairman of the board of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., The Chase Manhattan Bank and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, NY in 2000 and served there until his retirement on September 7, 2001. Instead, President Bush named Warner as a financial adviser to President-elect Bush's transition team in 2000.\n\nWarner may be best known for spearheading the sale of J P Morgan & Co. to Chase Manhattan Bank through its then CEO William Harrison for $30.9 billion.\n\nIn retirement, Warner is a director of Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc. and Motorola, Inc., a member of the Board of Counselors of The Bechtel Group, Inc., chairman of the Board of Managers and the Board of Overseers of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, serves as the Chair of the General Electric Audit committee, and serves on both the General Electric Nominating committee and Corporate Governance and Management Development and Compensation committee. Warner is a member of the Business Council, a trustee of the Pierpont Morgan Library, and a member of the Committee to Encourage Corporate Philanthropy (CECP). In between such retirement, Warner enjoys golf, skiing, and shooting as a member of Seminole Golf Club Seminole Golf Club, Links Club, River Club, Meadowbrook Club (Long Island, New York), Augusta National Golf Club, and Wequetonsing Golf Club(Harbor Springs, MI).\n\nWarner was recently selected for a coveted six-year term on the Yale Corporation, Yale University’s governing body.\n\nAnalysts say that Mr. Warner was a key figure throughout the 1980s and 1990s in the transformation of J.P. Morgan from a commercial bank to an investment banking firm. For example, J.P. Morgan was the first commercial bank since the 1930s to be granted the power to underwrite debt and equity securities. Under Warner, the firm ended lifelong job security as a result of a 1998 restructuring. One of his biggest cultural marks on J.P. Morgan was the creation of the \"House Arrest\" group, a dozen or so senior executives who met monthly to discuss management issues.\n\n\nIn 1998, Warner was an invited Gordon Grand Fellow lecturer at Yale University, and in 2001, he was awarded the Leadership Award from The Hill School. As an alumnus of The Hill School, Warner had proven himself \"to be an exemplary leader and true role model for students in his vocation.\"\n\n\n", "id": "7735101", "categories": ["American chief executives of financial services companies", "General Electric people", "Banking in the United States", "1946 births", "The Hill School alumni", "Businesspeople from New York City", "Living people", "Yale University alumni", "American bankers", "Businesspeople from Cincinnati", "JPMorgan Chase people"], "title": "Douglas A. Warner III"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735112", "text": "The Current (song)\n\n\"The Current\" is a song by Blue Man Group, released as the first single from their 2003 concept album, \"The Complex\". The song features the guest vocals of Gavin Rossdale of Bush, and was featured in the film, \"\".\n\nThe song deals with urban and occupational isolation, the two key themes from the album. The isolation theme is furthered by the setting, which takes place in the underground portion of the urban complex—the location of the phone lines, electrical wires, and Internet connections. According to the Blue Man Group themselves, \"We wanted to capture the modern paradox of having access to millions of people through electric current but still being cut off from any real human contact.\"\n\nThe song might then be assumed to be about how technology is moving the world forward whilst it moves people backwards.\n\nAnother promo CD was released, in a cardboard slide case.\n\n\n\nThe song was performed at The Complex concerts, with vocals from Peter Moore. There was a special performance with Rossdale on The Late Late Show with Craig Kilborn.\n", "id": "7735112", "categories": ["Songs written for films", "Terminator (franchise)", "2003 songs", "Blue Man Group songs"], "title": "The Current (song)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735136", "text": "I Heard the Bells on Christmas Day\n\n\"I Heard the Bells on Christmas Day\" is a Christmas carol based on the 1863 poem \"Christmas Bells\" by American poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. The song tells of the narrator's despair, upon hearing Christmas bells, that \"hate is strong and mocks the song of peace on earth, good will to men\". The carol concludes with the bells carrying renewed hope for peace among men.\n\nIn 1861, two years before writing this poem, Longfellow's personal peace was shaken when his second wife of 18 years, to whom he was very devoted, was tragically burned in a fire.\nThen in 1863, during the American Civil War, Longfellow's oldest son, Charles Appleton Longfellow, joined the Union cause as a soldier without his father's blessing. Longfellow was informed by a letter dated March 14, 1863, after Charles had left. \"I have tried hard to resist the temptation of going without your leave but I cannot any longer\", he wrote. \"I feel it to be my first duty to do what I can for my country and I would willingly lay down my life for it if it would be of any good\". Charles soon got an appointment as a lieutenant but, in November, he was severely wounded in the Battle of New Hope Church (in Virginia), during the Mine Run Campaign. Charles eventually recovered, but his time as a soldier was finished.\n\nLongfellow first wrote the poem on Christmas Day in 1863. \"Christmas Bells\" was first published in February 1865, in \"Our Young Folks\", a juvenile magazine published by Ticknor and Fields. References to the Civil War are prevalent in some of the verses that are not commonly sung.\n\nThe following are the original words of Longfellow's poem:\n\n<poem>\nI heard the bells on Christmas Day\nTheir old, familiar carols play, \nOf peace on earth, good-will to men!\n\nAnd thought how, as the day had come,\nThe belfries of all Christendom \nOf peace on earth, good-will to men!\n\nTill ringing, singing on its way,\nThe world revolved from night to day,\nOf peace on earth, good-will to men!\n\nThen from each black, accursed mouth\nThe cannon thundered in the South, \nOf peace on earth, good-will to men!\n\nIt was as if an earthquake rent\nThe hearth-stones of a continent,\nOf peace on earth, good-will to men!\n\nAnd in despair I bowed my head;\n\"There is no peace on earth,\" I said; \nOf peace on earth, good-will to men!\"\n\nThen pealed the bells more loud and deep:\n\"God is not dead, nor doth He sleep; \nWith peace on earth, good-will to men.\"\n</poem>\n\nIt was not until 1872 that the poem is known to have been set to music. The English organist, John Baptiste Calkin, used the poem in a processional accompanied with a melody he previously used as early as 1848. The Calkin version of the carol was long the standard. Less commonly, the poem has also been set to Joseph Mainzer's composition \"Mainzer\" (1845). In 2011, Jack Gibbons, the British pianist and composer, set Longfellow's poem to music in his role as artist-in-residence at Davis & Elkins College, and the first performance was given by the Davis & Elkins College choir on December 4, 2011. Since at least the middle of the 20th century, the poem has been set to other musical arrangements.\n\nIn 1956, Bing Crosby's version (recorded on October 3, 1956 and released as a single) that reached No. 55 in the Music Vendor survey. The record was praised by both \"Billboard\" and \"Variety\". \"Bing Crosby's workover of \"I Heard the Bells on Christmas Day\" looks like a big one for the '56 Yule and a hit potential of enduring value.\" \"At deadline time, not many of this year's Christmas issues had shown much action. This new Crosby record, however, was off to a promising start. As fast as it is catching on early in the month, it is easy to project the impressive volume it will rack up the last half of December.\"\n\nIn chapter five of his 1962 novel \"Something Wicked This Way Comes\", Ray Bradbury describes this carol as \"immensely moving, overwhelming, no matter what day or what month it was sung.\" The carol provides an ironic contrast to the evil that Mr. Dark's carnival is about to bring to Green Town, Illinois (where the story takes place). In the 1983 film adaptation of the novel, Mr. Dark (Jonathan Pryce) and Charles Halloway (Jason Robards) both quote passages from the carol when they meet in the town's library (though Dark ominously states that \"it's a thousand years to Christmas\").\n\nIn 2008, the contemporary Christian music group, Casting Crowns, scored their eighth No. 1 Christian hit with \"I Heard the Bells\", from their album \"Peace on Earth\". The song is not an exact replica of the original poem or carol, but an interpolation of verses 1, 6, 7 and 3 (in that order), interposed with a new chorus. However, the new version has re-introduced the original poem to a modern listeners.\n\n\n", "id": "7735136", "categories": ["Poetry by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow", "Works originally published in St. Nicholas Magazine", "Christmas poems", "Anti-war songs", "Bing Crosby songs", "Christmas carols", "American Christmas songs"], "title": "I Heard the Bells on Christmas Day"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735157", "text": "Pinky Woods\n\nGeorge Rowland \"Pinky\" Woods (May 22, 1920 – October 30, 1982) was a professional baseball pitcher. He played all or part of three seasons in Major League Baseball for the Boston Red Sox from 1943 to 1945. A native of Waterbury, Connecticut, the right-hander was measured during his playing career at and 225 lbs.\n\nWoods is one of many ballplayers who only appeared in the major leagues during World War II. In his three seasons with Boston he appeared in 85 games, starting a little more than half of them.\n\nHe made his major league debut on June 20, 1943, starting game 2 of a doubleheader against the Philadelphia Athletics at Shibe Park. He did not get a decision in the 6-5 Red Sox victory. His first big league win came on July 23, in relief, against the Chicago White Sox in game 1 of a Fenway Park doubleheader. He finished his rookie year 5-6 with a 4.92 ERA.\n\nHis best season was 1944. Even though his record was just 4-8, he pitched a career-high 170.2 innings and had his lowest earned run average (3.27) and lowest WHIP (1.518). His 38 pitching appearances ranked tenth in the American League. His finest major league pitching effort also occurred during this season. On June 14 in game 2 of a home doubleheader, he hurled a complete game shutout against the Philadelphia Athletics, winning by a score of 5-0. The losing pitcher was All-Star right-hander Russ Christopher.\n\nDuring his three-year career Woods completed 10 of 44 starts, had a 13–21 record, 25 games finished, 3 saves, and an ERA of 3.97. In 378.2 innings pitched he struck out 124 and walked 206. Good with the bat and glove, he hit .190 (24-for-126) and handled 112 out of 115 total chances in the field successfully for a fielding percentage of .974.\n\nWoods died at the age of 62 in Los Angeles.\n\n", "id": "7735157", "categories": ["Baseball players from Connecticut", "Canton Terriers players", "Boston Red Sox players", "1982 deaths", "Louisville Colonels (minor league) players", "Indianapolis Indians players", "Memphis Chickasaws players", "Hollywood Stars players", "Major League Baseball pitchers", "1920 births"], "title": "Pinky Woods"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735168", "text": "Thổ Chu Islands\n\nThổ Chu Islands () is an archipelago in the Gulf of Thailand. It constitutes Tho Chau Commune of Phú Quốc District, Kiên Giang Province, Vietnam.\n\nThổ Chu Islands consist of eight islands as following: Thổ Chu Island (), Hòn Cao, Hòn Cao Cát, Hòn Khô, Hòn Mô (or Hòn Cái Bàn), Hòn Nhạn, Hòn Từ and Hòn Xanh. Hòn Nhạn is base point \"A1\" on Vietnam's baseline.\n\nThổ Chu Island - the largest entity of the archipelago - was first proposed to become a marine protected area in 1995. Subsequently, Asian Development Bank has proposed the establishment of a marine protected areas over Thổ Chu Island with an area of , of which land area is and sea area is .\n\nDuring the era of Republic of Vietnam, Thổ Chu Islands were under the administration of An Xuyên Province. However, the islands historically used to constitute a disputed territory between Cambodia and Vietnam, both nations claiming that they are within their territorial waters.\n\nOn May 10, 1975, Khmer Rouge occupied Thổ Chu Island and abducted about five hundred civilians to Cambodia, all of whom were massacred. From May 24 to May 27, 1975, Vietnamese forces attacked the occupiers and recaptured the island. In 1977, the Khmer Rouge raided Thổ Chu Island once again but were defeated.\n\nOn April 27, 1992, under the arrangement of the People's Committee of Kiên Giang Province, six families with about thirty people moved to Thổ Chu Island and settled there. On April 24, 1993, the Vietnamese government decided to establish Thổ Châu Commune.\n\nOn March 8, 2014, Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 lost contact with ground while flying by this island.\n\nThổ Châu commune has about 500 households with nearly 2,000 inhabitants, most of whom are border guards and navy personnel who chose to settle on the islands; the rest are immigrants. Local residents' livelihood is providing service to fishing boats, small craft production, farming, animal husbandry and fishing along the coast.\n\n\n", "id": "7735168", "categories": ["Archipelagoes of Vietnam", "Landforms of Kien Giang Province"], "title": "Thổ Chu Islands"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735178", "text": "Lophomyrtus\n\nLophomyrtus is a genus of the myrtle family described as a genus in 1941. The entire genus is endemic to New Zealand. It consists of evergreen shrubs or trees, noted for their colorful leaves, which are purple, chocolate, red or bronze-green. There are also a number of cultivars. Planting in full sun aids the leaf color to develop. In cool climates, the plant may need to be placed in a sheltered area. They will also grow in semi shade. This genus is closely related to the Australian \"Lenwebbia\" which also has four petals and similar though less colourful leaves.\n\nMost \"Lophomyrtus\" in gardens are hybrids between the two species. This cross, \"Lophomyrtus bullata\" × \"Lophomyrtus obcordata\", is known as \"Lophomyrtus × ralphii\" and has produced many popular cultivars in a range of plant sizes and foliage colours. Among the most popular are: 'Kathryn', up to 3 m tall, deep purple-bronze foliage; 'Indian Chief', red-brown foliage that darkens in winter; 'Pixie', a compact form with small, bright, red-brown leaves; 'Little Star', a compact plant with small, rounded, cream-edged green leaves that are suffused with pink; 'Gloriosa', an upright cultivar to 2 m tall, cream-edged green leaves that develop pink tones, especially in winter; 'Black Beauty', narrow upright growth habit to 2 m tall, very dark red-brown foliage; and 'Red Dragon', up to 1.8m tall, narrow red leaves tapering to a point mature to a dark chocolate shade.\n\n\"Lophomyrtus × ralphii\" cultivars are valued in gardens for their foliage and their ability to withstand regular trimming and shaping. Their flowers and fruit, while attractive and sometimes quite showy, are ornamentally incidental to the foliage.\n", "id": "7735178", "categories": ["Myrtaceae", "Flora of New Zealand", "Myrtaceae genera"], "title": "Lophomyrtus"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735197", "text": "Chester Academy\n\nChester Academy is a public secondary school located in Chester, New York, USA. Their mascot is the Hambletonian, after Hambletonian 10, a famed harness racing horse that is an ancestor of nearly every Standardbred horse in the United States. The school's colors are orange and blue and . Chester Academy is a recently built school, with construction starting in 2002. Students moved into the school from Chester Junior/Senior High School, located about 0.741 miles away, in 2004.\n\nThere are three floors. The school offers a variety of sports at different levels: football, soccer, baseball, cheerleading, Wrestling and basketball at varsity and junior varsity levels, as well as a varsity track and cross country team. They also have volleyball as of 2015.\n\nThe name of the school changed from Chester Jr/Sr High School to Chester Academy in May 2004 when students and faculty were moved from the original Maple Avenue school building to the new building on Hambletonian Avenue. Chester Jr/Sr High School housed students grades 7-12, and was changed to accommodate students grades 6-12 in the Chester Academy. The school building is separated into a junior high school wing and a high school wing. Chester Academy is also home to the Boces Special Education wing.\n", "id": "7735197", "categories": ["Public middle schools in New York (state)", "Public high schools in New York (state)", "Schools in Orange County, New York"], "title": "Chester Academy"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735204", "text": "Larry Lintz\n\nLarry Lintz (born October 10, 1949) is an American former professional baseball player whose career extended from 1971 to 1979 and included Major League service with the Montreal Expos (1973–1975), St. Louis Cardinals (1975), Oakland Athletics (1976–1977) and Cleveland Indians (1978). Primarily a second baseman, Lintz stood tall and weighed . He was a switch-hitter who threw right-handed. In six Major League seasons, Lintz played in 350 games and had 137 runs, 140 hits, and 128 stolen bases.\n\nLintz signed with the Expos after being selected out of San Jose State University in the sixth round of the 1971 Major League Baseball draft. He began his career with the Watertown Expos that year, finishing with a .280 batting average in 65 games. In 1972, he spent the season with the Quebec Carnavals. In 131 games, he recorded 96 stolen bases in 107 attempts, which was an Eastern League record. After spending part of 1973 with the Peninsula Whips, the Expos promoted him to the major league roster.\n\nLintz made his debut on July 14, 1973, and played in 52 games. In the following season, he played in 113 games, finishing the year with a .238 batting average and 50 stolen bases, which was fifth in the National League. After 46 games with the Expos in 1975, he was traded to the St. Louis Cardinals for Jim Dwyer, and finished the season with them; after the season ended he was traded to the Oakland Athletics for Charlie Chant. In 1976, Lintz was used almost exclusively by the Athletics as a pinch-runner, appearing in 68 games with only one at-bat; during that season he scored 21 runs and stole 31 bases in 42 attempts.\n\nAfter spending 1977 with the Athletics, Lintz signed with the Cleveland Indians. He played in three games to end his major league career, and spent most of the season with the minor league Portland Beavers. He played in three games for the Tacoma Tugs, the following season, then retired.\n\nLintz was the inspiration for a character in the award-winning short film \"Darwin's Tears.\"\n", "id": "7735204", "categories": ["Montreal Expos players", "Québec Carnavals players", "Cleveland Indians players", "Living people", "Baseball players from California", "Oakland Athletics players", "Major League Baseball second basemen", "Tacoma Tugs players", "Peninsula Whips players", "San Jose Missions players", "San Jose State Spartans baseball players", "St. Louis Cardinals players", "1949 births", "Portland Beavers players", "Tucson Toros players"], "title": "Larry Lintz"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735215", "text": "Poltroon\n\nPoltroon was a successful event horse ridden by American rider Torrance Watkins.\n\nSusie Beckman, of Cincinnati, Ohio, bred her pinto pony mare, Frosty, to the Thoroughbred stallion Hopper's Pride.\n\nDespite her size, Poltroon was awarded the individual bronze medal at the 1980 alternate Olympic Games at Fontainebleau, France, finishing with a score of 75.00 penalty points. This made her rider the first woman to win an Olympic medal in the sport. Additionally, the mare won the 1980 Modified Advanced 3-Day at the Rolex Kentucky Three Day, and finished second at the Badminton Horse Trials.\n", "id": "7735215", "categories": ["Eventing horses", "Individual mares"], "title": "Poltroon"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735222", "text": "Minnesota South District of the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod\n\nThe Minnesota South District is one of the 35 districts of the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod (LCMS), and covers the southern third of the state of Minnesota including the Twin Cities area; it also includes two in Wisconsin. The northern two thirds of Minnesota constitute the Minnesota North District, and the rest of Wisconsin is divided between the North Wisconsin and South Wisconsin Districts. In addition, two Minnesota congregations are in the non-geographic English District. The Minnesota South District includes approximately 246 and missions, subdivided into 24 circuits, as well as 49 preschools, 45 elementary schools and 7 high schools. Baptized membership in district congregations is approximately 127,000.\n\nThe Minnesota South District was formed in 1963 when the Minnesota District was divided. District offices are located in Burnsville, Minnesota. Delegates from each congregation meet in convention every three years to elect the district president, vice presidents, circuit counselors, a board of directors, and other officers. The Rev. Dr. Dean Nadasdy has been the district president since 2012. The 75th Regular Convention was held on June 11–13, 2009 with the theme \"Transformed for His Mission\". The 76th Regular Convention be held in June 14–16, 2012 at Concordia University, Saint Paul with the theme \"Free and Focused\" (1 Cor 9:19-23). The 77th Regular Convention will be held once again at Concordia University, St. Paul from June 18-20, 2015. The theme of the convention is \"On Our Way Rejoicing,\" from the story in Acts 8 when Philip the Evangelist baptizes the Ethiopian eunuch.\n\nConcordia University, Saint Paul, part of the LCMS Concordia University System, is located within the district.\n\n\n\nOldest in Wisconsin: Trinity Lutheran Church, Hudson, Wisconsin, 1909\n\n\n", "id": "7735222", "categories": ["Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod districts", "Religious organizations established in 1963", "Lutheranism in Wisconsin", "Lutheranism in Minnesota", "Burnsville, Minnesota"], "title": "Minnesota South District of the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735247", "text": "Fama–MacBeth regression\n\nThe Fama–MacBeth regression is a method used to estimate parameters for asset pricing models such as the capital asset pricing model (CAPM). The method estimates the betas and risk premia for any risk factors that are expected to determine asset prices. The method works with multiple assets across time (panel data). The parameters are estimated in two steps:\n\n\nEugene F. Fama and James D. MacBeth (1973) demonstrated that the residuals of risk-return regressions and the observed \"fair game\" properties of the coefficients are consistent with an \"efficient capital market\" (quotes in the original).\n\nNote that Fama MacBeth regressions provide standard errors corrected only for cross-sectional correlation. The standard errors from this method do not correct for time-series autocorrelation. This is usually not a problem for stock trading since stocks have weak time-series autocorrelation in daily and weekly holding periods, but autocorrelation is stronger over long horizons. This means Fama MacBeth regressions may be inappropriate to use in many corporate finance settings where project holding periods tend to be long. For alternative methods of correcting standard errors for time series and cross-sectional correlation in the error term look into double clustering by firm and year.\n\n\n", "id": "7735247", "categories": ["Finance theories"], "title": "Fama–MacBeth regression"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735253", "text": "Christina Milian discography\n\nChristina Milian is an American R&B and pop singer. She has released three studio albums, six singles and one compilation album, in addition to six music videos on Island Records.\n\nMilian's self-titled debut album was released in 2001, and features the singles \"AM to PM\" and \"When You Look at Me\"; both peaked in the top three on the UK Singles Chart. The singer's second studio album, \"It's About Time\" (2004), provided her first major US hit \"Dip It Low\". The single peaked at number two in the UK and number five in the US, and was certified Gold by the RIAA for digital sales. Milian's third studio album, \"So Amazin'\" (2006), produced only one single, \"Say I\".\n\nA month after the release of \"So Amazin\"', Milian's representative confirmed that she had left Island Def Jam Music Group due to \"creative differences\". After leaving Island Records, a greatest hits compilation, \"The Best of Christina Milian\", was released in 2006 solely in Japan. Milian signed with Myspace Records and worked on her fourth album \"Dream in Color\". A single was released in October 2008, ballad \"Us Against the World\". In 2009, whilst working with The-Dream, Milian left Myspace and signed to Interscope Records through The-Dream's Radiokilla Record. Producer Tricky Stewart confirmed that Milian had rebooted the album and a new single, yet to be decided, would be the first from the album. The album was renamed \"Elope\". In 2012, following her public divorce from The-Dream, Milian announced that she had signed a new deal with Young Money Entertainment, under Lil Wayne's guidance, she resumed recording the album confirming that some previously recorded material may still appear on the album.\n", "id": "7735253", "categories": ["Pop music discographies", "Discographies of American artists", "Christina Milian"], "title": "Christina Milian discography"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735285", "text": "Joseph Cordeiro\n\nJoseph Marie Anthony Cordeiro (19 January 1918 -- 11 February 1994) was the first Pakistani cardinal.\n\nCordeiro was educated at St Patrick's High School, Karachi, the University of Bombay and Oxford University. He received his religious training at the Papal Seminary in Kandy, Sri Lanka, and was ordained a priest in Karachi, Pakistan on 24 August 1946.\n\nFrom 1946 to 1948, he did pastoral work in Hyderabad and Karachi. \n\nHe then attended Oxford University, where he earned a Master of Arts degree.\n\nIn 1950 he was appointed Vice Principal of St Patrick's High School, Karachi. From 1952 he served as principal of St Francis Grammar School in Quetta and as rector of the St. Pius X Minor Seminary in Quetta. On 7 May 1958, he was appointed Archbishop of Karachi, with his seat at Saint Patrick's Cathedral, Karachi.\n\nHe attended the Second Vatican Council (1962–1965), the First Ordinary Assembly of the Synod of Bishops, Vatican City (1967), the First Extraordinary Assembly of the Synod of Bishops, Vatican City (1969) and the Second Ordinary Assembly of the Synod of Bishops, Vatican City (1971). He was elected a member of the Council of the General Secretariat of the Synod of Bishops (1971).\n\nHe was the first Pakistani cardinal, a position elevated by Pope Paul VI (1973). He attended both papal conclaves in 1978, and was mentioned as papabile by \"Time Magazine\" after Pope John Paul I's death.\n\nHe wrote a series of articles for the Archdiocesan weekly \"Christian Voice\" called \"\"Lessons of a Lifetime\"\", a reflection on his life experiences.\n\nFrom 1958 until his death, Cordeiro was president of the Catholic Bishops' Conference of Pakistan.\nCordeiro died on 11 February 1994 at Holy Family Hospital with complications due to cancer. Cordeiro was succeeded by Archbishop Simeon Anthony Pereira.\n\nCordeiro was honoured by the Christ the King Seminary in Karachi that has hosted the Cardinal Cordeiro Cricket tournament to promote religious vocations since 2008.\n\nOn 6 May 2011, The Old Patricians (former students of St Patrick's school) presented the Joseph Cardinal Cordeiro Gold Medal to the top student from the Cambridge A level section at the closing ceremony of the 150th anniversary of the school.\n\nIn 2012, Cardinal Cordeiro High School was named in his honor. The school is located in the Good Shepherd Parish in Korangi Town, Karachi.\n\nHis Alma Mater, St. Patrick’s High School named the Cardinal Cordeiro Silver Jubilee Auditorium in his honor.\n\n<br>\n\n<br>\n", "id": "7735285", "categories": ["Pakistani Roman Catholic bishops", "Participants in the Second Vatican Council", "St Patrick's High School, Karachi alumni", "20th-century Roman Catholic archbishops", "Alumni of the University of Oxford", "1918 births", "Catholic Church in Pakistan", "Christian clergy from Mumbai", "People from Karachi", "1994 deaths", "Pakistani cardinals", "Cardinals created by Pope Paul VI", "Pakistani Roman Catholic priests", "University of Mumbai alumni"], "title": "Joseph Cordeiro"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735307", "text": "Formatted File System\n\nThe Formatted File System (FFS) is the name of a series of Database Management Systems (DBMS) developed for military use and designed to run on IBM mainframe computers.\n\nThe period from 1964 to 1968 saw the transition from isolated DBMS development efforts to the development of DBMS families. The Formatted File System is one such family. Others included General Electric's IDS family, and the Mark IV series developed by Informatics Inc. (later acquired by Sterling Software). These families were developed across organizations and branches of government, spreading and evolving with their primary developers. Beginning around 1968, industry DBMS development became increasingly proprietary.\n\n\n", "id": "7735307", "categories": ["Proprietary database management systems", "IBM mainframe software"], "title": "Formatted File System"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735351", "text": "Larry Siegfried\n\nLarry E. Siegfried (May 22, 1939 – October 14, 2010) was an American National Basketball Association player.\n\nSiegfried led Ohio in scoring as a senior at Shelby High School.\n\nSiegfried played college basketball for Ohio State University, and his tenure there overlapped with future Hall-of-Famers Jerry Lucas and John Havlicek. Siegfried, a junior high scoring guard, and Joe Roberts, a senior forward, were the two holdover starters when three outstanding sophomores, Lucas, Havlicek and guard Mel Nowell arrived for the 1959–60 season. Siegfried adjusted his scoring to allow for Lucas and Nowell while joining Roberts and Havlicek as a key defender. Siegfried was also an excellent free throw shooter few risked fouling. The Ohio State Co-Captain of the 1960 team, Siegfried played a key role in the Buckeyes run to the 1960 NCAA title. All five starters from that team later played in the NBA, which then had just nine teams and eleven players per team. Future coach Bobby Knight was a reserve on that team as well. Said Knight of Siegfried, \"I never saw a better guard in the Big Ten than Larry Siegfried. He was a great player. He was tough as hell. He was physical, he could jump . . . if I had my choice of any guard who played in the Big Ten when I coached and everything else, I'd have a hard time picking someone else.\"\n\nFor the 1960–61 season, Siegfried was team captain outright. The team went undefeated until the NCAA Final, when they were upset by Cincinnati. Siegfried was named to the NCAA Final Four All-Tournament Team. Also named All-Big Ten, Siegfried did not get the All-American consideration he may have been due because of the star presence of Lucas. Siegfried did play in the 1960 US Olympic Trials for the Rome Games.\n\nAt 6'3\" and 190 pounds, Siegfried was considered a prototype guard for the NBA at that time. The Cincinnati Royals drafted him with their first pick in 1961 to pair with Oscar Robertson in their backcourt. Siegfried would not play in Cincinnati because of Ohio State's loss to Cincinnati's Bearcats that year. Instead, he joined the Cleveland Pipers of the American Basketball League. The team, owned by future Yankee boss George Steinbrenner, and coached by John McLendon and Bill Sharman, won that pro league's 1961–62 title. Dick Barnett and Connie Dierking were among that team's stars. The highly drafted Siegfried was just a reserve.\n\nWhen the ABL folded the next year, the St. Louis Hawks acquired his rights but then surprisingly cut him. Siegfried considered retirement, becoming a high school coach and teacher before former college teammate Havlicek convinced coach Red Auerbach to try him out for the Boston Celtics. Slowly regaining his confidence, Siegfried proved to be a key pickup. He eventually became a starter next to Havlicek or Sam Jones in the backcourt. His defense and free throw shooting were key to NBA title wins for Boston in 1968 and 1969. Boston announcer Johnny Most often noted his tenacious defense, calling 'Ziggy's in his shirt tonight' to describe Siegfried on many nights.\n\nSiegfried played his first seven professional seasons with the Boston Celtics, earning five championship rings during that time. He led the NBA in free throw percentage in both the 1965–66 and 1968–69 seasons.\n\nSiegfried spent the last season of his career with the Rockets and Hawks organizations.\n\nFollowing his NBA career, Siegfried counseled prisoners at the Mansfield Correctional Institution in Ohio and did motivational speaking.He also served briefly as the Executive Director of the Central Ohio Chapter of The Associated Builders & Contractors (ABC). He died of a heart attack on October 14, 2010.\n", "id": "7735351", "categories": ["Atlanta Hawks players", "2010 deaths", "1939 births", "Shooting guards", "All-American college men's basketball players", "Boston Celtics players", "American Basketball League (1961–62) players", "San Diego Rockets players", "Houston Rockets players", "Basketball players from Ohio", "Basketball players at the 1961 NCAA Men's Division I Final Four", "Ohio State Buckeyes men's basketball players", "Portland Trail Blazers expansion draft picks", "Cincinnati Royals draft picks", "People from Shelby, Ohio", "Basketball players at the 1960 NCAA Men's Division I Final Four"], "title": "Larry Siegfried"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735352", "text": "Behavioural change theories\n\nBehavioural change theories are attempts to explain why behaviours change. These theories cite environmental, personal, and behavioural characteristics as the major factors in behavioural determination. In recent years, there has been increased interest in the application of these theories in the areas of health, education, criminology, energy and international development with the hope that understanding behavioural change will improve the services offered in these areas. Some scholars have recently introduced a distinction between models of behavior and theories of change. Whereas models of behavior are more diagnostic and geared towards understanding the psychological factors that explain or predict a specific behavior, theories of change are more process-oriented and generally aimed at changing a given behavior. Thus, from this perspective, understanding and changing behavior are two separate but complementary lines of scientific investigation.\n\nEach behavioural change theory or model focuses on different factors in attempting to explain behaviour change. Of the many that exist, the most prevalent are learning theories, social cognitive theory, theories of reasoned action and planned behaviour, transtheoretical model of behavior change, the health action process approach and the BJ Fogg model of behavior change. Research has also been conducted regarding specific elements of these theories, especially elements like self-efficacy that are common to several of the theories.\n\nSelf-efficacy is an individual's impression of their own ability to perform a demanding or challenging task such as facing an exam or undergoing surgery. This impression is based upon factors like the individual's prior success in the task or in related tasks, the individual's physiological state, and outside sources of persuasion. Self-efficacy is thought to be predictive of the amount of effort an individual will expend in initiating and maintaining a behavioural change, so although self-efficacy is not a behavioural change theory per se, it is an important element of many of the theories, including the health belief model, the theory of planned behaviour and the health action process approach.\n\nFrom behaviourists such as B. F. Skinner come the learning theories, which state that complex behaviour is learned gradually through the modification of simpler behaviours. Imitation and reinforcement play important roles in these theories, which state that individuals learn by duplicating behaviours they observe in others and that rewards are essential to ensuring the repetition of desirable behaviour. As each simple behaviour is established through imitation and subsequent reinforcement, the complex behaviour develops. When verbal behaviour is established the organism can learn through rule-governed behaviour and thus not all action needs to be contingency shaped.\n\nAccording to the social learning theory (more recently expanded as social cognitive theory), behavioural change is determined by environmental, personal, and behavioural elements. Each factor affects each of the others. For example, in congruence with the principles of self-efficacy, an individual's thoughts affect their behaviour and an individual's characteristics elicit certain responses from the social environment. Likewise, an individual's environment affects the development of personal characteristics as well as the person's behavior, and an individual's behaviour may change their environment as well as the way the individual thinks or feels. Social learning theory focuses on the reciprocal interactions between these factors, which are hypothesised to determine behavioral change.\n\nThe theory of reasoned action assumes that individuals consider a behaviour's consequences before performing the particular behaviour. As a result, intention is an important factor in determining behaviour and behavioural change. According to Icek Ajzen, intentions develop from an individual's perception of a behaviour as positive or negative together with the individual's impression of the way their society perceives the same behaviour. Thus, personal attitude and social pressure shape intention, which is essential to performance of a behaviour and consequently behavioural change.\n\nIn 1985, Ajzen expanded upon the theory of reasoned action, formulating the theory of planned behaviour, which also emphasises the role of intention in behaviour performance but is intended to cover cases in which a person is not in control of all factors affecting the actual performance of a behaviour. As a result, the new theory states that the incidence of actual behaviour performance is proportional to the amount of control an individual possesses over the behaviour and the strength of the individual's intention in performing the behaviour. In his article, Further hypothesises that self-efficacy is important in determining the strength of the individual's intention to perform a behaviour. In 2010, Fishbein and Ajzen introduced the reasoned action approach, the successor of the theory of planned behaviour.\n\nAccording to the transtheoretical model of behavior change, also known as the \"stages of change model\", states that there are five stages towards behavior change. The five stages, between which individuals may transition before achieving complete change, are precontemplation, contemplation, preparation for action, action, and maintenance. At the precontemplation stage, an individual may or may not be aware of a problem but has no thought of changing their behavior. From precontemplation to contemplation, the individual begins thinking about changing a certain behavior. During preparation, the individual begins his plans for change, and during the action stage the individual begins to exhibit new behavior consistently. An individual finally enters the maintenance stage once they exhibit the new behavior consistently for over six months. A problem faced with the stages of change model is that it is very easy for a person to enter the maintenance stage and then fall back into earlier stages. Factors that contribute to this decline include external factors such as weather or seasonal changes, and/or personal issues a person is dealing with.\n\nThe health action process approach (HAPA) is designed as a sequence of two continuous self-regulatory processes, a goal-setting phase (motivation) and a goal-pursuit phase (volition). The second phase is subdivided into a pre-action phase and an action phase. Motivational self-efficacy, outcome-expectancies and risk perceptions are assumed to be predictors of intentions. This is the motivational phase of the model. The predictive effect of motivational self-efficacy on behaviour is assumed to be mediated by recovery self-efficacy, and the effects of intentions are assumed to be mediated by planning. The latter processes refer to the volitional phase of the model.\n\nThe Fogg Behavior Model (FBM) is a design behavior change model introduced by BJ Fogg. This model posits that behavior is composed of three different factors: motivation, ability and triggers. Under the FBM, for any person (user) to succeed at behavior change needs to be motivated, have the ability to perform the behavior and needs a trigger to perform this behavior. The next are the definitions of each of the elements of the BFM:\n\nBJ Fogg does not provide a definition of motivation but instead defines different motivators:\n\nThis factor refers to the self efficacy perception at performing a target behavior. Although low ability is undesirable it may be unavoidable: \"We are fundamentally lazy\" according to BJ Fogg. In such case behavior change is approached not through learning but instead by promoting target behaviors for which the user has a high ability. Additionally BJ Fogg list several elements or dimensions that characterize high ability or simplicity of performing a behavior: \n\nTriggers are reminders that may be explicit or implicit about the performance of a behavior. Examples of triggers can be alarms, text messages or advertisement, triggers are usually perceptual in nature but may also be intrinsic. One of the most important aspects of a trigger is timing as only certain times are best for triggering certain behaviors. As an example if a person is trying to go to the gym everyday, but only remembers about packing clothing once out of the house it is less likely that this person will head back home and pack. In contrast if an alarm sounds right before leaving the house reminding about packing clothing, this will take considerably less effort. Although the original article does not have any references for the reasoning or theories behind the model, some of its elements can be traced to social psychology theories, e.g., the motivation and ability factors and its success or failure are related to Self-efficacy.\n\nBehavioural change theories can be used as guides in developing effective teaching methods. Since the goal of much education is behavioural change, the understanding of behaviour afforded by behavioural change theories provides insight into the formulation of effective teaching methods that tap into the mechanisms of behavioural change. In an era when education programs strive to reach large audiences with varying socioeconomic statuses, the designers of such programs increasingly strive to understand the reasons behind behavioural change in order to understand universal characteristics that may be crucial to program design.\n\nIn fact, some of the theories, like the social learning theory and theory of planned behaviour, were developed as attempts to improve health education. Because these theories address the interaction between individuals and their environments, they can provide insight into the effectiveness of education programs given a specific set of predetermined conditions, like the social context in which a program will be initiated. Although health education is still the area in which behavioural change theories are most often applied, theories like the stages of change model have begun to be applied in other areas like employee training and developing systems of higher education.\n\nEmpirical studies in criminology support behavioural change theories. At the same time, the general theories of behavioural change suggest possible explanations to criminal behaviour and methods of correcting deviant behaviour. Since deviant behaviour correction entails behavioural change, understanding of behavioural change can facilitate the adoption of effective correctional methods in policy-making. For example, the understanding that deviant behaviour like stealing may be learned behaviour resulting from reinforcers like hunger satisfaction that are unrelated to criminal behaviour can aid the development of social controls that address this underlying issue rather than merely the resultant behaviour.\n\nSpecific theories that have been applied to criminology include the social learning and differential association theories. Social learning theory's element of interaction between an individual and their environment explains the development of deviant behaviour as a function of an individual's exposure to a certain behaviour and their acquaintances, who can reinforce either socially acceptable or socially unacceptable behaviour. Differential association theory, originally formulated by Edwin Sutherland, is a popular, related theoretical explanation of criminal behaviour that applies learning theory concepts and asserts that deviant behaviour is learned behaviour.\n\nRecent years have seen an increased interest in energy consumption reduction based on behavioural change, be it for reasons of climate change mitigation or energy security. The application of behavioural change theories in the field of energy consumption behaviour yields interesting insights. For example, it supports criticism of a too narrow focus on individual behaviour and a broadening to include social interaction, lifestyles, norms and values as well as technologies and policies—all enabling or constraining behavioural change.\n\nBesides the models and theories of behavior change there are methods for promoting behavior change. Among them one of the most widely used is Tailoring or personalization.\n\nTailoring refers to methods for personalizing communications intended to generate higher behavior change than non personalized ones. There are two main claims for why tailoring works: Tailoring may improve preconditions for message processing and tailoring may improve impact by altering starting behavioral determinants of goal outcomes. The different message processing mechanisms can be summarized into: Attention, Effortful processing, Emotional processing and self-reference. \nBehavioral determinants of goal outcomes are the different psychological and social constructs that have a direct influence on behavior. The three most used mediators in tailoring are attitude, perception of performance and self efficacy. Although results are largely positive they are not consistent and more research on the elements that make tailoring work is necessary.\n\nBehavioural change theories are not universally accepted. Criticisms include the theories' emphases on individual behaviour and a general disregard for the influence of environmental factors on behaviour. In addition, as some theories were formulated as guides to understanding behaviour while others were designed as frameworks for behavioural interventions, the theories' purposes are not consistent. Such criticism illuminates the strengths and weaknesses of the theories, showing that there is room for further research into behavioural change theories.\n\n", "id": "7735352", "categories": [], "title": "Behavioural change theories"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735366", "text": "Excuse My French\n\nExcuse My French may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7735366", "categories": [], "title": "Excuse My French"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735377", "text": "Paint Branch High School\n\nPaint Branch High School is a high school located in the Fairland census-designated place, an unincorporated section of Montgomery County, Maryland; it has a Burtonsville postal address.\n\nIt is named after the Paint Branch creek. The school was founded in 1969 and is part of the Montgomery County Public Schools System. The school lies on Old Columbia Pike, between Briggs Chaney and Greencastle Road.\n\nPaint Branch, once a rural high school now deep in the heart of suburban sprawl, is a member of the Northeast Consortium schools in Montgomery County. As a member of the Consortium, the school's signature program focuses on Science and Media education. The panther is the school's mascot, and the school song is 'Hail to the Panthers', which is sung to the tune of 'Hail to the Redskins'. The school's colors are burgundy and gold, also the same as the Washington Redskins.\n\nPaint Branch competes in the 4A North division in the Maryland Public Secondary Schools Athletic Association (MPSSAA). The Panthers have fielded a total of 22 state championship athletic teams, including Girls Basketball (1979, 1980, 2001, 2008), Baseball (1976, 1979, 1990, 1991), Boys' Basketball (1977, 2000), Wrestling (1978, 2001), Boys' Cross-Country (1973, 1974), Boys' Track and Field (Indoor 2003, 2019; Outdoor 2003), Girls' Track and Field (Indoor 2009, Outdoor 1989), Field Hockey (2009), Softball (1987), and Football (1975).\n\n\n\nA new building is now established in the location that the woods next to the football field once occupied. As the only school at that time without a new building, Paint Branch High School was guaranteed a new building when it was asked to enter the Northeast Consortium back in 1998. The new building was scheduled to be completed by the end of 2010, but budget shortfalls pushed that date until April 2012, resulting in the class of 2013 being the first class to graduate from the new building. Hess Construction Co. was awarded the contract to build the new school. Hess Construction Co. is also the builder of the Kenmore Middle School in Arlington County, Virginia. Staff moved into the new building June 18, 2012.\n\nThe old Paint Branch building, originally scheduled to be torn down in the summer of 2012 was torn down in October 2012. Sports fields were completed by the 2013-2014 school year.\n\n", "id": "7735377", "categories": ["Public high schools in Montgomery County, Maryland", "Fairland, Maryland", "Educational institutions established in 1969", "Burtonsville, Maryland"], "title": "Paint Branch High School"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735426", "text": "University of the Air\n\nUniversity of the Air may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7735426", "categories": [], "title": "University of the Air"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735427", "text": "E-function\n\nIn mathematics, E-functions are a type of power series that satisfy particular arithmetic conditions on the coefficients. They are of interest in transcendental number theory, and are more special than G-functions.\n\nA function \"f\"(\"x\") is called of type \"E, or an E\"-function, if the power series\n\nsatisfies the following three conditions:\n\nwhere the left hand side represents the maximum of the absolute values of all the algebraic conjugates of \"c\";\n\nThe second condition implies that \"f\" is an entire function of \"x\".\n\n\"E\"-functions were first studied by Siegel in 1929. He found a method to show that the values taken by certain \"E\"-functions were algebraically independent.This was a result which established the algebraic independence of classes of numbers rather than just linear independence. Since then these functions have proved somewhat useful in number theory and in particular they have application in transcendence proofs and differential equations.\n\nPerhaps the main result connected to \"E\"-functions is the Siegel–Shidlovsky theorem (also known as the Shidlovsky and Shidlovskii theorem), named after Carl Ludwig Siegel and Andrei Borisovich Shidlovskii.\n\nSuppose that we are given \"n\" \"E\"-functions, \"E\"(\"x\")...,\"E\"(\"x\"), that satisfy a system of homogeneous linear differential equations\nwhere the \"f\" are rational functions of \"x\", and the coefficients of each \"E\" and \"f\" are elements of an algebraic number field \"K\". Then the theorem states that if \"E\"(\"x\")...,\"E\"(\"x\") are algebraically independent over \"K\"(\"x\"), then for any non-zero algebraic number α that is not a pole of any of the \"f\" the numbers \"E\"(α)...,\"E\"(α) are algebraically independent.\n\n\n", "id": "7735427", "categories": [], "title": "E-function"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735442", "text": "2005–06 Venezuelan Professional Baseball League season\n\nThe 2005-06 season of the Venezuelan Professional Baseball League ( or \"LVBP\") was won by the team Leones del Caracas.\n\n", "id": "7735442", "categories": [], "title": "2005–06 Venezuelan Professional Baseball League season"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735447", "text": "Raiffeisen Bank (Serbia)\n\nRaiffeisen Bank (, or \"Raiffeisen banka a.d. Beograd\") is the Serbian subsidiary of Austria-based Raiffeisen Bankgruppe. As of 2009, bank maintains a total of 102 branches throughout Serbia.\n\nThough it obtained the operating licence in March 2001, and fully operated since July 2001, the bank officially opened on 12 October 2001 during the Austrian chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel's state visit to Belgrade. Its original name was Raiffeisenbank Jugoslavija a.d.\n\nWith a founding capital of €10 million (99% of it belonging to RZB and 1% to Austrian Uniqa Beteiligungs Holding GmbH - insurance company), it became the first 100% foreign-owned bank in then-Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Starting from Belgrade, the bank gradually expanded its network all over Serbia. During 2004, the name was changed to Raiffeisenbank a.d. Beograd.\n\n\n", "id": "7735447", "categories": ["2001 establishments in Serbia", "Banks established in 2001", "Raiffeisen Zentralbank", "Companies based in Belgrade", "Banks of Serbia"], "title": "Raiffeisen Bank (Serbia)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735470", "text": "Space Empires V\n\nSpace Empires V (SEV) is a 4X turn based strategy game that was released in 2006. It was developed by Malfador Machinations and published by Strategy First. The game retains many races and technologies from its predecessor, \"Space Empires IV\" (\"SEIV\").\n\nWhile \"Space Empires V\" retains much of its predecessor's gameplay, there are several key differences. It is the first \"Space Empires\" game to use three-dimensional graphics, and as such, the user interface has been heavily redesigned. New to the series is a 3D real-time combat engine, and the player can now control ground combat in addition to the usual space battles. The empire-building aspects of the game borrows as much from the third instalment as it does from the fourth, with research and intelligence being assigned as a percentage of available points as opposed to the queue system used for construction.\n\nVirtually all of the stock races (with the exception of the Sithrak) are updated versions of \"SEIV\" races. Custom race creation is basically the same as in the previous games, with two notable changes - you must now select a government type in addition to a social paradigm, and the game master may grant players a set number of research points to improve starting technology. As of now, there are comparatively few player-created shipsets, arguably a consequence of the switch to 3D graphics.\n\nThe game received mixed reviews. Several have complained that the game is over-complex and overloads the player with options, especially while setting up a new game, and that it may not be suitable for players who are new to 4X games. One huge bug in the game that frustrated many players initially was the AI's design routine, which in early releases would always build only one ship types based on the largest hull available. For example, if the AI had battleship technology, it would build only battleships until a bigger hull size was available.\n\n", "id": "7735470", "categories": ["2006 video games", "4X video games", "Video games developed in the United States", "Video game sequels", "Space opera video games", "Space Empires", "Windows-only games", "Turn-based strategy video games", "Windows games"], "title": "Space Empires V"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735472", "text": "Ptolemaic Decrees\n\nThe Ptolemaic Decrees were a series of three decrees by synods of ancient Egyptian priests. They were issued in the Ptolemaic Kingdom, which controlled Egypt from 305 BC to 30 BC. In all three, the benefactions of the reigning Pharaoh, especially towards the priesthood, are recognised, and religious honours are decreed for him.\n\nThe first decree was issued under Ptolemy III Euergetes (the Decree of Canopus), the second under Ptolemy IV Philopator (the Raphia Decree), and the third under Ptolemy V Epiphanes (the well-known Rosetta Stone). Multiple copies of the decrees, inscribed on stone steles, were erected in temple courtyards, as specified in the text of the decrees.\n\nThere exist three copies plus a fragment of the Decree of Canopus, two copies of the Memphis Decree (one imperfect), and two and a half copies of the text of the Rosetta Stone, including the copy on the Nubayrah Stele and a pyramid wall inscription with edits, or scene replacements, completed by subsequent scribes.\n\nThe Decree was issued on 7 Appellaios (Mac.) = 17 Tybi (Eg.) year 9 of Ptolemy III = 7 March 238.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7735472", "categories": ["Ancient Egyptian stelas", "Decrees"], "title": "Ptolemaic Decrees"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735475", "text": "Halco Mining\n\nHalco Mining is an aluminium company based in Guinea. The company is organized under the laws of the state of Delaware in the United States. Halco is the 51% owner of the stock of Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee, the primary aluminium mine and smelter operator in Guinea, known as CBG.\n\nThe consortium was established in 1962 by Harvey Aluminium Company to mine bauxite deposits in the Boké region. Halco/CBG owns the rights to mine bauxite in a 10,000 square kilometer area of northwestern Guinea under a seventy five year lease through the year 2038.\n\nHalco's stock is owned by the following companies:\n\n\n\n", "id": "7735475", "categories": ["Aluminium companies of Guinea", "Alcoa", "Mining companies of Guinea"], "title": "Halco Mining"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735478", "text": "The Open University of Japan\n\nAlthough founded by the national government initiative with a single-issue law and heavily subsidised by the government, it was established by as a , the University classified as a private university in Japan.\n\nIt was founded on the basic system of The Open University in the United Kingdom. The administration is based in Chiba City although it has offices and learning centers in each of Japan's 47 prefectures. The University offers accredited undergraduate and graduate degrees.\n\nWith nearly 90,000 students enrolled (in 2007), 45,000 students graduated from the University. It is one of the largest academic institutions in the nation, and qualifies as one of the world's mega universities. Since it was founded, over 780,000 students have taken courses from the institution.\n\nBachelor's degree courses are available in six areas of study: Living and Welfare, Psychology and Education, Society and Industry, Humanities and Culture, Informatics, Nature and Environment.\n\nThe syllabus is made up of foundation subjects, course subjects (introduction, speciality, and integrated), and graduation research units. Each study unit is supported by a specially written textbook, in conjunction with fifteen 45 minute recorded lectures. Many face-to-face lectures, condensed summer courses, and online units are also available. (Apart from a very select few) subjects are offered in Japanese only.\n\nHumanities and Culture\n\nInformatics\n\nThe OUJ Academia broadcasts lectures and administrative announcement programs. It owns terrestrial television and radio broadcasting stations at the headquarters in Chiba City. All programs are recorded and edited at the headquarters and transmitted from the Tokyo Tower via UHF television and FM radio, and relayed at Maebashi, Gunma to reach Kantō region as well as on Broadcasting Satellite (BS) channels to reach the whole nation. The broadcasts are exclusively in Japanese language as the medium of instruction. Article 50-4-1 of the Broadcasting Act prohibits the OUJ from broadcasting commercial messages. The cost of the broadcasting system is subsidised by the national budget.\n\nIt is not affiliated with any other broadcasting networks (although there were supports from television stations in Tokyo at the beginning). As a television station it is the only purely independent/isolated terrestrial station in Japan.\n\nReception is free to the general public.\n\nTelevision: Physical channel 28 (preset channel 12; Tokyo and Maebashi).\n\nRadio: 77.1 MHz FM (Tokyo), 78.8 MHz (Maebashi).\n\nBS: Nationwide on channel 231, 232 and 233 for television (the latter two are used for multichannel broadcasting while the former is for regular broadcasting) and channel 531 for radio. No contract charge or subscription fees are charged at OUJ-only recipients. Some cable television and cable radio also re-transmit the broadcasts.\n\n\n", "id": "7735478", "categories": ["Television stations in Japan", "Universities and colleges in Chiba Prefecture", "Radio in Japan", "Private universities and colleges in Japan"], "title": "The Open University of Japan"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735489", "text": "Accelerated Christian Education\n\nAccelerated Christian Education is an American company which produces the Accelerated Christian Education (ACE, styled by the company as A.C.E.) school curriculum structured around a literal interpretation of the Bible and which teaches other academic subjects from a Protestant fundamentalist or conservative Evangelical standpoint. Founded in 1970 by Donald and Esther Howard, ACE's website states it is used in over 6,000 schools in 145 countries. ACE has been criticized for its content, heavy reliance on the use of rote recall as a learning tool and for the educational outcomes of pupils on leaving the Accelerated Christian Education system both in the US and the United Kingdom.\n\nAccelerated Christian Education was founded in 1970 by Drs. Donald and Esther Howard. They set about developing a biblically literalist educational curriculum with Donald Howard traveling to promote ACE schools around the world as a new form of \"educational mission\".\n\nThe first school which used the ACE program opened in Garland, Texas, and started with 45 students. By 1980 there were over 3,000 Christian schools in the United States associated with ACE, reaching 8,000 during the 1980s.\n\nIn 1996 ACE opened a three-story facility in Lewisville, Texas, to handle its growing operations. Esther Howard took over control of ACE the following year. She remains as ACE's President, and Duane Howard, one of the couple's sons, currently serves as Vice President. In 2007, ACE moved its corporate offices to Madison, Tennessee, eventually moving to Hendersonville, Tennessee in 2014. The Lewisville facility remains as ACE's distribution center.\n\nAccording to the curriculum section on its website, ACE's \"core curriculum is an individualized, Biblically-based, character-building curriculum package\" and is based on a series of workbooks called PACEs (Packets of Accelerated Christian Education). At the beginning of each PACE is an overview, a scripture to memorize, a character trait to strive toward, and information on what, if any, supplies the student will need. Each subject has 12 PACEs per grade level. The basic subjects of ACE are math (yellow), English (red), Literature & Creative Writing (light red), Word Building/Etymology (purple), science (blue), social studies (green), Old and New Testament (orange). Students in the Philippines also study Araling Panlipunan (brown) and Filipino (pink).\nA new student is given a placement test and the results place the student at appropriate levels by subject. Students are required to set daily goals for work completion and are generally expected to finish a given PACE within two to three weeks (depending on the school). Students are given reviews at certain points in a PACE (called \"check-ups\") and a test at its culmination. The passing score for the test can be from 80% to 90%, also depending on the corresponding school. Students who fail must take what measures the school provides to pass the PACE.\n\nSchools using the curriculum are not allowed to describe themselves as \"ACE schools\" or use the ACE logo although schools are expected to sign an agreement and follow the ACE \"Procedures Manual\" and \"Administration Manual\".\n\nThe program can be used by homeschooling families and private establishments; ACE provides instruction and structure for operating a \"Christian school\". ACE's website advises that schools are not required to use the entire curriculum and may augment it with other resources although this incurs a financial penalty as the school loses its discount.\n\nThe company also sells home schooling and distance learning curriculum materials through its Lighthouse Christian Academy (LCA).\n\nACE provides annual one-day training sessions called Christian Educators' Conventions (CEC) for administrators, supervisors, and monitors. These are provided in locations around the United States. The sessions focus on understanding and properly implementing the ACE program. For Learning Center Supervisors a four-day workshop is provided annually. The workshop is organized like an ACE classroom, allowing the supervisor to experience the ACE system as a student and learn how to implement the system.\n\nSchools that use the ACE curriculum may participate in the Regional Student Conventions and the top-placed participants are able to proceed to the International Student Convention. This convention is usually held at a university campus, such as Indiana University in Bloomington (1990), the University of North Texas in Denton (1991), Northern Arizona University in Flagstaff (1993), and Purdue University in Indiana (1994). International Student Conventions have been held at Western Kentucky University (2010) with about 2,500 students, James Madison University (2011) 3,000 attending, New Mexico State University (2015) 2,500 participants, and Indiana University of Pennsylvania (2017) 2,200 students. The All Africa Student Convention takes place in South Africa once a year at the University of the Free State in Bloemfontein, South Africa. The All Africa Student Convention is not organized or hosted by ACE United States but by Accelerated Christian Education South Africa, which is a separate organization providing the ACE curriculum to African schools.\n\nThe conventions also offer \"Events of the Heart\", which allow students with mental and physical disabilities to participate. When the conventions first started, a parade in the hosting city would accompany a convention. In 1981, over 3,000 students and sponsors marched in New York City to celebrate the opening of the convention at Rutgers University. Student conventions offer speakers; past speakers have included David Gibbs from the Christian Law Association, Ben Jordan and William Murray.\n\nThe curriculum's emphasis on rote recall has been criticized by educational researchers. David Berliner described the teaching methods as \"low-level cognitive tasks that emphasize simple association and recall activities, as is typical of instruction from workbooks... the materials make heavy use of behavioral objectives, programmed learning, and rewards.\" D. Flemming and T Hunt in a 1987 article in the education journal \"Phi Delta Kappa\" analyzed the ACE curriculum, concluding that \"If parents want their children to obtain a very limited and sometimes inaccurate view of the world — one that ignores thinking above the level of rote recall — then the ACE materials do the job very well. The world of the ACE materials is quite a different one from that of scholarship and critical thinking.\"\n\nThe ACE curriculum included controversial content in relation to race. Social Studies (World History) PACE 108 stated,\n\nAlthough apartheid appears to allow the unfair treatment of blacks, the system has worked well in South Africa ... Although white businessmen and developers are guilty of some unfair treatment of blacks, they turned South Africa into a modern industrialized nation, which the poor, uneducated blacks couldn't have accomplished in several more decades. If more blacks were suddenly given control of the nation, its economy and business, as Mandela wished, they could have destroyed what they have waited and worked so hard for.\n\nACE Social studies PACE also attempts to play down the role of slavery in the American Civil War, stating that God created the war to punish people for religious apostasy.\n\nIn addition, the curriculum has been criticized for its depiction of racially segregated churches and schools.\n\nScience is presented in the ACE curriculum through the framework of Young Earth Creationism (YEC). For example, in Biology 1099, the existence of the Loch Ness monster is presented as a fact (as a plesiosaur), and used as a so-called proof against the theory of evolution. Textbooks published in Europe removed the Loch Ness monster reference in July 2013 however children are still only taught creationism as an explanation for the origin of life on earth.\n\nTextbooks used in the curriculum assert that abortion is wrong, evolution is false, and homosexuality is a choice. They teach that wives must be subservient to their husbands, women's liberation leads to child neglect and that one can avoid AIDS by being abstinent until marriage.\n\nThe ACE curriculum in \"Science 1096\" asserts that solar fusion is a myth, describing it as \"an invention of evolution scientists.\"\n\nAs of January 2017 there are 26 schools using the ACE curriculum registered in the United Kingdom. In October 2016 ten schools graded by British parliamentary education inspectors OFSTED were revisited following concerns of mistreatment raised in British press, nine of which were subsequently re-graded as 'inadequate' or 'requires improvement' by the watchdog. In 2018 a further ACE school in London was rated 'inadequate' for failing to teach adequate science and for not teaching children to ″develop the skills to collect and evaluate scientific evidence.\"\n\nIn 2017, research into the International Certificate of Christian Education, the school-leaving qualification provided by ACE in the UK, claimed that it failed to prepare students for university level education. Professor Michael Reiss of University of London stated \"My particular problem with ACE is the awful nature of the curriculum they provide to their students.\" The study by Scaramanga and Reiss states that the curriculum fails students as it is heavily based around memorizing information rather than analyzing and understanding it.\n\nHaving researched comparative performance on the American College Test between public school students from one school and ACE students from another private school in the same geographic area, one college student wrote in her thesis in 2005 that \"a significant difference was found between the public school graduates' scores and the ACE graduates' scores in all areas of the ACT (English, Math, Reading, and Composite Score), except the area of Science Reasoning. Overall, the ACT scores of the ACE graduates were consistently lower than those of the public school students.\" The author also noted that \"the current study did not account for variables such as socioeconomic status, ethnicity, gender, or parent's level of education. These variables may impact ACT scores and therefore need to be considered in future research,\" nor was demographic information of the public school used for comparison. Furthermore, the sample size of graduates from ACE was disproportionately small in this analysis.\n\nAs of 2019, applicants who completed their Grade 12 or equivalent at the ACE (Accelerated Christian Education) School of Tomorrow may no longer be accepted to study at the University of South Africa.\n\n", "id": "7735489", "categories": ["Publishing companies established in 1970", "Education companies of the United States"], "title": "Accelerated Christian Education"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735497", "text": "Ross Grimsley\n\nRoss Albert Grimsley III (born January 7, 1950) is a former left-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball who played for the Cincinnati Reds (1971–73), Baltimore Orioles (1974–77 and 1982), Montreal Expos (1978–80) and Cleveland Indians (1980). His father, Ross II, pitched for the 1951 Chicago White Sox.\n\nRoss was the son of Ross II, who pitched for the 1951 Chicago White Sox, and his wife Judy (Robinson) Grimsley. Ross II, a World War II veteran, had a long minor-league playing career.\n\nThe younger Ross Grimsley was a 1969 graduate of Frayser High School in Memphis, Tennessee, where he was an outstanding basketball and baseball player. He attended Jackson State Community College in Jackson, Tennessee. He was drafted by the Cincinnati Reds in the first round (17th pick) of the 1969 amateur draft (January Secondary).\n\nHe made his major league debut for the Reds at age 21 on May 16, 1971 in a 9-3 loss to the Expos at Riverfront Stadium. He started and took the loss, pitched 1.2 innings and gave up three earned runs. The first major league hitter he faced was Ron Hunt. In 26 starts that year, he posted a record of 10-7 with a 3.57 ERA.\n\nHe followed up with an even better season in 1972, going 14-8 with a 3.05 ERA for the National League champion Reds. He also had s strong World Series, going 2-1 in four games (three in relief) with a 2.57 ERA as the Reds fell to the Oakland Athletics in seven games. In 1973 he was 13-10 with a 3.23 ERA as the Reds won the NL West division.\n\nGrimsley played for a Reds team that was notorious for conservative rules that governed the appearance and decorum of its players on and off the field. Flaunting the team rules with his long hair, he ran afoul of manager Sparky Anderson who requested after the 1973 season that Grimsley be traded. He, along with Wally Williams, was sent to the Baltimore Orioles for Merv Rettenmund, Junior Kennedy and Bill Wood two months later on December 4.\n\nThe deal paid off for the Orioles in 1974 as Grimsley went 18-13 with 17 complete games in a career-high 39 starts as the Orioles were American League East division champions. In 1975 and 1976 his totals were down, with records of 10-13 with a 4.07 ERA and 8-7 with a 3.95 ERA. In 1977 he was 14-10 with a 3.96 ERA. \n\nHe cashed in on his free agent status by signing a six-year $1.1 million contract with the Montreal Expos on December 6, 1977. Ironically, the Orioles had attempted to trade him to the Expos for Barry Foote prior to the 1977 season. Grimsley rewarded the Expos with his best year in 1978. He was named to the 1978 National League All-Star team and finished seventh in voting for the 1978 National League Cy Young Award, posting a record of 20-11, 19 complete games, three shutouts, 263 innings pitched and a 3.05 ERA. However, in 1979 he fell to a record of 10-9 with a 5.35 ERA. In 1980 he was only 2-6 with a 6.31 ERA for the Expos, and on July 11 he was traded to the Cleveland Indians for whom he went 4-5 with a 6.75 ERA.\n\nHe was released by the Indians and didn't play in the majors in 1981. In 1982 he returned to the Orioles, pitched 21 games in his final major league season.\n\nGrimsley finished his 11-season playing career during a comeback attempt with the Orioles in 1982. His career totals included a 124-99 record, 79 complete games, 15 shutouts, 2,039 innings pitched and a 3.81 ERA.\n\nGrimsley was one of the more colorful players of the 1970s. With the Reds, he was called into manager Sparky Anderson's office and told to stop corresponding with a \"witch\" who had been sending him good luck charms. Despite being a premier starting pitcher for the Reds, he was traded to the Orioles for Merv Rettenmund, a part-time outfielder, after the 1973 season, largely in part for his constant resistance to the Reds organization's conservative grooming rules. With the Orioles in 1974, he sported a huge mop of curly hair and prominent moustache.\n\nIn an incident on September 16, at Fenway Park, Grimsley, warming up in the Orioles' bullpen, responded to Boston fans' heckling by throwing into the right field bleachers. The ball passed through the protective netting, injuring a Boston fan. The fan later successfully sued Grimsley and the Orioles in \"Manning v. Grimsley\", a case cited in law casebooks to highlight the scope of employment law as it relates to agency. He was accused by Yankees manager Billy Martin in 1977 of throwing \"spitball\" pitches using Vaseline hidden in his hair, which was usually somewhat greasy in appearance anyway due to Grimsley's penchant for not showering during winning streaks. In addition to his nickname \"Scuz\" for his liberal grooming habits, he was also called \"Crazy Eyes\" and known to wear turquoise contact lenses.\n\nAfter his playing career ended, he was a minor league instructor for the Orioles, Atlanta Braves, Seattle Mariners and Philadelphia Phillies.\n\nSince 1999, Grimsley has been a minor-league pitching coach for the San Francisco Giants. He is currently the pitching coach for the AA Richmond Flying Squirrels (formerly the Connecticut Defenders).\n\nHe and his wife live outside of Baltimore.\n\n", "id": "7735497", "categories": ["Baltimore Orioles players", "Gold Coast Suns (baseball) players", "Cincinnati Reds players", "Chattanooga Lookouts players", "Jackson State Generals baseball players", "Minor league baseball managers", "Charleston Charlies players", "Baseball players from Kansas", "Daytona Beach Explorers players", "Living people", "Calgary Cannons players", "Montreal Expos players", "Cleveland Indians players", "Rochester Red Wings players", "Sioux Falls Packers players", "Indianapolis Indians players", "Sportspeople from Topeka, Kansas", "Baseball coaches from Kansas", "Minor league baseball coaches", "National League All-Stars", "American expatriate baseball players in Canada", "1950 births", "Major League Baseball pitchers"], "title": "Ross Grimsley"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735510", "text": "Mount Baker Tunnel\n\nThe Mount Baker Tunnel or Mount Baker Ridge Tunnel carries Interstate 90 under the Mount Baker neighborhood of Seattle, Washington. It is actually a group of three tunnels that carry eight lanes of freeway traffic, plus a separate path for bicycles and pedestrians. The two originals are twin tunnel bores completed in 1940 and rehabilitated in 1993. The newest tunnel was built north of the original tunnels and opened in June 1989. The tunnel has a double-decked roadway with the bicycle/pedestrian path above the traffic lanes.\n\nThe tunnel was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982 (ID #82004243). The east portals of the tunnel, with murals titled \"\" designed by artist James FitzGerald, along with the Lacey V. Murrow Bridge, are an official City of Seattle landmark.\n\nThe official length is , though the perceived length while driving is closer to because of a cut-and-cover \"lid\" between the western portal and the beginning of the actual tunnel under the Mount Baker ridge. The former west portal, now located well inside the tunnel, is no longer discernible and its two arch structures were removed during 1989–1993 modification work. The eastern end of the tunnel links to the Lacey V. Murrow Memorial Bridge and the Homer M. Hadley Memorial Bridge (collectively the I-90 floating bridge) on Lake Washington, to Mercer Island.\n\nAt in diameter, it is the world's largest diameter soft earth tunnel, having been bored through clay.\n\nWhen completed in 1940, the twin tunnels connected the I-90 floating bridge on Lake Washington and Rainier Avenue South in Seattle. The bridge and tunnels were part of US Highway 10, which used surface streets between the tunnels and downtown Seattle. US 10 was a four-lane, undivided highway. Each tunnel held two traffic lanes. The north tunnel normally carried two westbound lanes. The south tunnel normally carried two eastbound lanes. In the 1960s, a lane-use signal system was added to improve peak commute traffic. During peak commute times, the signals were used to make the center two lanes reversible. In the mornings, three lanes flowed west and one lane flowed east. In the evenings, three lanes flowed east and one lane flowed west. During morning and evening commutes, one tunnel carried two lanes of traffic in the same direction while the other tunnel carried opposing traffic separated only by dashed yellow lines.\n\nThe highway would later become part of Interstate 90, be expanded, and upgraded to a controlled-access freeway. The freeway expansion and upgrade was completed in 1993.\n\nThe expansion included construction of a new, parallel tunnel with a larger diameter, located north of the original tunnel. Construction began in 1983. When the overall I-90 project was completed in 1993, the twin 1940 tunnels would be connected to the southern I-90 floating bridge (the Lacey V. Murrow Memorial Bridge) and carry eastbound traffic only, while the 1989 tunnel would be connected to the northern floating bridge (the then-new Homer M. Hadley Memorial Bridge) and be westbound-only for general traffic.\n\nThe original pair of tunnels were each in diameter, while the new tunnel was in diameter. The new tunnel was built to carry traffic on three levels: two lanes for buses and carpools on the bottom level, three lanes of general traffic on the middle level, and cyclists and pedestrians on the top level. Excavation was completed in 1986, and the new tunnel opened to traffic in June 1989. Although designed to carry only westbound traffic, the new tunnel and then-new Homer Hadley Memorial Bridge temporarily carried all traffic – in both directions – when opened in 1989, while work continued on modifying the old Mercer Island Bridge where it connected to the 1940 Murrow Bridge and on rehabilitation of the latter. \n\nThe new tunnel opened to westbound traffic on June 4, 1989, and to eastbound traffic on June 23. On the latter date, the old tunnel and floating bridge closed to all traffic, for renovation that was originally expected to take three years. When a long section of the Murrow Bridge sank during a storm in 1990, the reopening was delayed by about one year, until 1993.\nWith the reopening of the Murrow Bridge in 1993, the older Mount Baker Ridge tunnel also reopened, with all of its lanes now eastbound-only. Instead of carrying two traffic lanes in each tunnel, the reconfigured lanes in the twin 1940 tunnels comprised two lanes of eastbound traffic in the northern tunnel and one lane of eastbound traffic in the southern tunnel, and with pedestrians no longer permitted (because of the exclusive pedestrian and bicycle facilities now provided in the parallel new tunnel). A second eastbound lane was later reinstated in the northern tunnel. The reversible lanes in the older tunnels had been separated only by painted lines on the roadway surface, but the reversible lanes on the rebuilt and expanded freeway (which use only the newer, 1989 tunnel) are separated by concrete barriers, to improve safety. \n\nThe I-90 expansion project also effectively more than doubled the length of the Mt. Baker Tunnel. The west portal of the twin 1940 tunnels, which had been located near 29th Avenue South, was removed, and a concrete \"lid\" was built over the freeway, covering the section between the old west portal and west end of the lid, just west of 23rd Avenue South. However, officially the lid is not considered to be part of the tunnel, and a 1993 Historic American Engineering Record survey stated that the lengths of the two 1940 tunnels remain each. Inside the older tunnels, which had been arch-shaped, the ceiling and walls were made square, matching the shape of the \"lidded\" section. Equipment to boost radio reception was added.\n\nUpon completion of the Interstate 90 expansion program in the 1990s, the freeway capacity increased to three general-purpose lanes in each direction and two reversible HOV lanes. Eastbound traffic uses the original tunnels. Westbound traffic uses the upper deck of the northern new tunnel. A two-lane reversible roadway uses the lower deck. The reversible roadway served as express lanes for transit buses and carpools (2+ people) during peak commute periods until 2017. The express lanes flowed westbound on weekday mornings and eastbound on weekday afternoons and evenings. On weekends, the express lanes were open; traffic direction was variable depending on anticipated traffic volumes. When the express lanes were open to eastbound traffic, single-occupant vehicles headed to Mercer Island are allowed to use the lanes per an inter-local agreement signed in 1976.\n\nAbove the westbound traffic is the I-90 Trail tunnel. At , it is the longest non-adapted trail tunnel in the world. On the western half, the trail emerges onto the lid and uses trails in Lid Park.\n\nIn 2017, the Washington State Department of Transportation added a pair of high-occupancy vehicle lanes (HOV lanes) to Interstate 90 from Seattle to Bellevue, replacing the reversible express lanes. The express lanes were closed in June 2017 for the construction of the East Link light rail project, which will extend Link light rail service from Seattle to Bellevue and Redmond in 2023. On Mercer Island, WSDOT and Sound Transit are building direct access ramps to allow buses and HOVs to exit and enter I-90 from the HOV lanes.\n", "id": "7735510", "categories": ["Road tunnels in Washington (state)", "Tunnels in Seattle", "Road tunnels on the National Register of Historic Places", "Landmarks in Seattle", "Interstate 90", "Transportation buildings and structures on the National Register of Historic Places in Washington (state)", "National Register of Historic Places in Seattle", "Tunnels completed in 1989", "Tunnels completed in 1940"], "title": "Mount Baker Tunnel"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735514", "text": "Hong Kong–Shenzhen Western Corridor\n\nThe Hong Kong–Shenzhen Western Corridor, also known for the main component Shenzhen Bay Bridge, is a cross-border highway between Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province and Hong Kong. The highway bridge is a dual three-lane controlled-access highway. It connects Ngau Hom Shek (), Hong Kong, to Dongjiaotou, which is administratively located in Nanshan District of Shenzhen. The Corridor also had other components, a border checkpoint Shenzhen Bay Port, built on reclaimed land, as well as roads that connect the Corridor to the existing road network of Shenzhen.\n\nThe highway bridge is part of Route 10 of the Hong Kong trunk road numbering system, the only other existing part being the Kong Sham Western Highway, formerly known as Deep Bay Link. The Shenzhen section of the Corridor, was also included as the extension of the S3 Guangshen Riverbank Expressway since circa 2010.\nHong Kong–Shenzhen Western Corridor is a cross border transport infrastructure which connects Hong Kong and Shenzhen. It was opened on 1 July 2007, the 10th anniversary of the establishment of the Hong Kong as a special administrative region of China. According to the \"People's Daily\" as well as the China News Service, the Corridor consists of three parts: a highway bridge which span from Hong Kong and across the boundary of Hong Kong and Shenzhen, Shenzhen Bay Port as a border checkpoint, which entirely inside the administrative boundary of Shenzhen, and roads that connected the Corridor to the road network, the S3 However, departments and agencies of Hong Kong Government defined the bridge and port as separate items, and called the bridge as Hong Kong–Shenzhen Western Corridor or Shenzhen Bay Bridge. Shenzhen Bay Bridge was the gazetted name of the bridge. \n\nThe construction project was included in the Shenzhen municipal government's 10th Five Year Plan, which was announced in 2001. According to Shenzhen, the infrastructure was said to be planned since 1996. The cross border highway was also included in a feasibility study of the Hong Kong Government. The study was completed in 2001, and proposed to built the Hong Kong–Shenzhen Western Corridor and Deep Bay Link, as the fourth land boundary crossing. The other three land boundary crossings were Lok Ma Chau, Man Kam To and Sha Tau Kok respectively. In December 2002, the State Council (the Central Government) approved the plan of the Corridor, which was submitted by Shenzhen. On 8 March 2002, the Finance Committee (FC) of the Hong Kong Legislative Council approved the funding of the design and site investigation for the Hong Kong section of the Corridor; the funding of the construction works of the Hong Kong section, which was estimated for HK$3.2 billion in money-of-the-day (MOD) price, was approved along with the funding of the Deep Day Link on 21 February 2003. The constriction cost of the latter was estimated for HK$4.6 billion in MOD price. The funding of the Hong Kong Port Area, which was estimated for HK$2.5 billion in MOD prices, was approved by the FC on 18 July 2003. The Shenzhen sections was mainly funded by the Shenzhen municipal government, despite the central government also endorsed RMB 0.2 billion.\n\nConstruction of the Corridor including the land reclamation, began on 28 August 2003 in Shenzhen, while the construction of the Shenzhen Bay Port building began in 2004. The main contractor of the construction of the Hong Kong section of the highway bridge, was a joint venture of Gammon, Skanska and China Railway Major Bridge Engineering Company (MBEC). Gammon Construction, at that time known as Gammon–Skanska Limited (Skanska was a co-owner of Gammon at that time), also won the contract to build the related infrastructure, the northern section of Kong Sham Western Highway, which known at that time as Deep Bay Link. The southern section would be built by another venture led by China State Construction. Hong Kong government also entrusted Shenzhen–Hong Kong Western Corridor Project Office to build the facilities of the Shenzhen Bay Port Hong Kong Port Area in 2004. Shenzhen Bay Port was entirely within the boundary of Shenzhen. In 2001, Hong Kong Government agreed in principle of co-locating the boundary crossing facilities, thus the birth of Shenzhen Bay Port Hong Kong Port Area.\n\nShenzhen–Hong Kong Western Corridor Project Office, a government agency, was responsible to build all the facilities within the Shenzhen boundary. Some of the construction was sub-contracted to other firms, such as Hsin Chong–Aster was responsible for the electrical and mechanical engineering of the Passenger Terminal Building (Hong Kong Side) of the Hong Kong Port Area. However, a scandal was exposed in 2015, which the facilities built by Shenzhen–Hong Kong Western Corridor Project Office (excluding Hong Kong Port Area) were over-budgeted from the original estimate RMB 2.4 billion, some items were purchased without open tender, as well as embezzle of public funds. Other controversies were exposed in 2005 on the approval of the project, which Shenzhen municipal government excluded the connection road of the Corridor, as well as living quarter of the Shenzhen Port Area, from the submission to the State Council, despite departments of the government included them in the advertisements. As well as around the legitimacy of the approval in the sense of environmental protection law. According to the news report, the connection roads were not constructed by Shenzhen–Hong Kong Western Corridor Project Office, and the legal advisor of the municipal government denied any wrongdoing of the project in an interview.\n\nThe bridge was constructed separately between Hong Kong and Shenzhen governments. It use the maritime border of the two cities as the point of separation. Upon its opening, along with the Shenzhen Bay Port Hong Kong Port Area, were leased to Hong Kong and made under Hong Kong's jurisdiction for an initial period until 30 June 2047. Hong Kong also responsible to the maintenance and day to day operation of the Shenzhen section of the bridge. As such, Hong Kong laws, including traffic laws, instead of the laws of Mainland China, apply on the whole bridge and within the Hong Kong Port Area.\n\nThe , Hong Kong section was completed in 2005. The corridor was scheduled for completion in 2006 but owing to the delay in the construction of the Shenzhen section , it was officially opened on 1 July 2007 by then-President Hu Jintao of China and the then-Chief Executive of Hong Kong Donald Tsang.\n\nThe Hong Kong Government has to pay rent to Shenzhen government for the use of the port area, amounting to RMB 6 million per year. The rental agreement lasts until 30 June 2047.\n\nFour Hong Kong public bus routes run on this corridor. They are operated by the New Lantao Bus Company and Citybus.\n\n\nA green public light bus route, 618, also operates from Tin Shui Wai new town.\n\nHong Kong taxis, minibuses and cross-border buses are allowed access to the corridor; private vehicles must have the correct permit to use the corridor.\n\n", "id": "7735514", "categories": ["Pearl River Delta", "Bridges completed in 2007", "Route 10 (Hong Kong)", "Bridges in Hong Kong", "Expressways in Hong Kong", "Cable-stayed bridges in China"], "title": "Hong Kong–Shenzhen Western Corridor"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735543", "text": "Hiroyuki Ikeuchi\n\nIkeuchi played a supporting role as General Miura in Wilson Yip's \"Ip Man\". He also appeared in Kiyoshi Kurosawa's \"Charisma\".\n\n\n\n", "id": "7735543", "categories": ["Living people", "Japanese people of Salvadoran descent", "1976 births", "Japanese male actors"], "title": "Hiroyuki Ikeuchi"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735549", "text": "Bastard (1940 film)\n\nBastard (Swedish: \"Vildmarkens sång\") is a Norwegian-Swedish film released in 1940. It stars Georg Løkkeberg, Signe Hasso and Alfred Maurstad and was directed by Helge Lunde and Gösta Stevens. The story is based on the story \"Basterd\" by F. W. Remmler.\n\n", "id": "7735549", "categories": ["1940s drama films", "Swedish films", "Norwegian films", "Norwegian black-and-white films", "Films based on short fiction", "Swedish drama films", "Swedish black-and-white films", "Films directed by Gösta Stevens", "1940 films", "Norwegian-language films"], "title": "Bastard (1940 film)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735567", "text": "USS Bronstein (FF-1037)\n\nUSS \"Bronstein\" (FF-1037) was the lead ship of her class in the United States Navy. She was named in honor of Assistant Surgeon Ben Richard Bronstein, who was killed in action on 28 February 1942 when was sunk by a German U-boat off Cape May, New Jersey.\n\n\"Bronstein\" was commissioned on 16 June 1963 as DE-1037. She was decommissioned 13 December 1990 and struck from the Navy list on 4 October 1991.\n\n\"Bronstein\" was disposed of through the Security Assistance Program as a foreign military sale on 12 November 1993. She was transferred to Mexico on 12 November 1993 where she serves as ARM \"Hermenegildo Galeana\" (F202).\n\n", "id": "7735567", "categories": ["Bronstein-class frigates", "Bravo-class frigates", "Cold War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States", "Active frigates of Mexico", "1962 ships", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana"], "title": "USS Bronstein (FF-1037)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735571", "text": "Frank McIntyre\n\nFrank McIntyre (January 5, 1865 – February 16, 1944) was an American military officer who served for many years as Chief of the Bureau of Insular Affairs, responsible for federal administration of the Philippines and Puerto Rico.\n\nFrank McIntyre was born to Dennis and Mary Gaughan McIntyre in Montgomery, Alabama. He had three brothers, James, John, and Cornelius Patrick, and four sisters, Mary, Catherine, Ellen, and Nora. Dennis McIntyre came to America in the 1850s and was a railroad car inspector for the West Point and Alabama Railroad. He settled first in Georgia, where he met his wife, and the family had moved to Alabama by 1860, when they are listed in census records. Dennis is listed on the roster of the Montgomery County Home Guard, CSA, in 1864. His wife Mary was originally from Crossmolina, County Mayo, where many Gaughans reside. She moved to Georgia in the 1850s to join her brother, Patrick Gaughan. Patrick later moved to Camden, Arkansas. He enlisted in the 33rd Arkansas Infantry Regiment, CSA, in 1863. The surname McIntyre is a Scottish Highland name (also spelled MacIntyre) that means \"son of the carpenter\" or wright. The Gaelic original is \"Mac an-T Saoir\". McIntyres were originally to be found in Lorne where they possessed the lands of Glenoe from the 13th century until the early 19th century. According to family tradition, the MacIntyres/McIntyres came originally from the Hebrides. In the 13th century, they sailed from their ancestral home carrying a white cow, and settled on the mainland at Glen Noe by Ben Cruachan. On the mainland the MacIntyres/McIntyres were hereditary foresters to the lords of Lorne. For many years, they paid the Campbells of Glenorchy a symbolic rent of a white calf and a snowball for their Glen Noe lands. During the 18th century, the rent was commuted to cash, then progressively raised. Donald, the 4th MacIntyre chief, could not pay so he emigrated to Canada. His brother and successor Captain Donald MacIntyre the fifth chief, tried but failed to make ends meet and the Glen Noe lands were lost two hundred years ago, in 1808. The present Clan Chief is Donald MacIntyre of Glenoe.\n\nFrank McIntyre was a grandson of James and Norah McIntyre of The Brockey, Killybegs, County Donegal, Ireland. His grandmother was Norah Cannon, the daughter of Dennis and Jane Cannon (née McBraerty) of Killybegs, County Donegal. Her sister Mary Cannon married Thomas Murrin of Croaghlin (1804–1882) Banagh barony, Killybegs, County Donegal, their daughter Jane Murrin (1829–1903) married Charles Dawson Lea (1819–1883) in 1851. Their son John Edward Dawson Lea (1859–1929) married Hannora McIntyre his cousin, who died on 10 October 1938. John and Hannorah lived at Rathmines, Dublin, and Aileach House, Killybegs, County Donegal, where his cousin and sister-in-law Agnes McIntyre also lived and where she died on 5 February 1990, aged 92. Agnes and Hannorah McIntyre were first cousins of General Frank McIntyre and Judge Patrick McIntyre. On the distaff side their first cousin was Séamus Hegarty, D.D. an Irish Roman Catholic prelate, who served as Bishop of Raphoe from 1982 to 1994, then as Bishop of Derry from 1994 to 2011. Agnes and Hannorah were the daughters of John and Mary McIntyre née Carr, and like Frank the grandchildren of James and Nora McIntyre, Nora being a Cannon.\n\nThe Cannons are descended from two of Ireland's most renowned Kings: Conn of the Hundred Battles and Niall of the Nine Hostages. The O'Cannons have been described as \"Ancient Princes of Tir Connaill\" and \"Valiant Chiefs\". However their 350-year dynasty in Tir Connaill ended in 1250. Their ancient territory would seem to have been Tir Aeda (now the barony of Tirhigh) after the deaths of Rory O' Canannain and his son Niall O'Canannain in 1250, the sept declined greatly in power. Brian O'Neill died ten years later in 1260, he had supported an O'Canannain claimant to Tir Conaill i.e. to the Kingdom of Tir Conaill (Tirconnell). The personal name Canannain is a diminutive of Cano meaning 'wolf cub'. Canannain was fifth in descent from Flaithbertach mac Loingsig (died 765), high-king of Ireland; they were the descendants of Neill of the Nine Hostages (Irish: Niall Noigiallach) who died c. 405 by his son, Conall Gulban who gave his name to Tir Conaill, the Land of Conall, now County Donegal.\n\nUi Canannain was the ancestral name of the Cannons and Tir Connaill (all of County Donegal and part of County Londonderry) was the \"Land of the Cannons\". By the early 17th century the name Ui Canannain had been anglicised to O'Cannon. Further anglicisation took place during the Penal laws in the late 18th and early 19th centuries and the name in County Donegal became Cannon. In the early 1880s, there were just 200 families bearing the Cannon surname living in County Donegal, who were mainly tenant farmers. The Cannons/O'Canannains, were of the ancient sept of Cenell Conaill, a branch of the northern Ui Neill and descend from Ruaidri ua Canannain (died 30 November 950) King of Cenel Conaill, and grandson of Canannain, who flourished in the second half of the 9th century. One of Neill's most famous descendants was George Washington, the first President of the United States of America. The site of the ancient seat of the O'Canannains was near Letterkenny the largest town of County Donegal, which is said on good authority to represent the hillside of the O'Cannons (English translation).\n\nFrank McIntyre was educated in public and private schools in Montgomery and at The University of Alabama from 1880 to 1882. While a student in Tuscaloosa, his professors noted his talents and recommended him for his home district's vacancy to West Point. McIntyre successfully passed a competitive examination and was enrolled at the United States Military Academy in the Fall of 1882. The son of Irish immigrants never forgot his roots. In a 1938 letter to his classmates at West Point, McIntyre reflected \"I can never forget the unsolicited kindness of these professors at the University [of Alabama] to a young boy without influence and with not the slightest obligation on their part. Their action reflects one phase of the spirit of Alabama. How could I forget it?\" McIntyre graduated from West Point in 1886, ranked tenth in his class. A classmate and roommate of McIntyre was General John J. Pershing.\n\nMcIntyre entered the United States army as a second lieutenant in the 19th Infantry, serving in various ranks until he attained that of brigadier-general in 1912. He saw duty at different posts, chiefly on the Mexican border, until the war with Spain, in which he participated in the Porto Rico expedition in 1898. McIntyre served in the Philippines from 1899 to 1902, after which he served with the general staff.\nMcIntyre was attached to the Bureau of Insular Affairs in 1905 and became its Chief in 1912, relieving General Clarence Ransom Edwards. During the War in Europe, he was assistant chief of staff with the rank of major-general. McIntyre served as long-time Chief of the Bureau of Insular Affairs and played a significant role in the governance of the Philippines and Puerto Rico throughout this period. With respect to Puerto Rico, McIntyre wavered on the wisdom of granting United States citizenship to Puerto Ricans but ultimately supported the Jones–Shafroth Act of 1917. At times, McIntyre had strained relations with other officials in Puerto Rico, such as U.S. District Judge and fellow Alabama nativePeter J. Hamilton during the 1910s and Governor E. Mont Reily during the 1920s. In his 2007 book Planting the American Flag: Twelve Men Who Expanded the United States Overseas, author Peter C. Stuart devoted an entire chapter to the career of Gen. McIntyre and his leadership of the Bureau of Insular Affairs. With respect to McIntyre's administration of the Philippines and Puerto Rico, Stuart noted \" While others more assertive or egoistic imprinted on the protectorates their personal marks, McIntyre left no memorial...yet he wielded perhaps greater sway upon the United States' little empire than all his more visible imperial colleagues.\" Stuart credits Gen. McIntyre's stewardship over the Bureau of Insular Affairs as having been critical to its survival, and noting that within a decade following his retirement the Bureau was turned over to the Department of the Interior and disbanded in 1939. Reflecting upon the Bureau's demise, Stuart noted \"An era of American imperial administration--in many ways the McIntyre era--had ended.\"\n\nMcIntyre retired from the Army in 1929.\n\nFollowing retirement Gen. McIntyre served for several years as the Philippine trade commissioner in Washington and lived on Massachusetts Avenue. In this role he lobbied on behalf of the islands' interests. He later purchased and maintained a home in Montgomery, Alabama on South Hull Street, from which he helped oversee the large plantation, cotton business, and real estate interests of his older brothers Jim and John McIntyre, who established McIntyre Brothers in 1878. The main plantation, named Killybegs after the ancestral hometown, is located in Ramer, Montgomery County, Alabama. Formerly 7600 acres, over 2,700 acres remain in the McIntyre family as of 2017.\n\nHe was married in 1892 in Dallas to the former Marie Dennett, a native of New Orleans who grew up primarily in Texas. Marie Dennett was the daughter of James Wilson Dennett (1831-1888) a native of Huntsville, AL and Marie Dufilho Dennett, who was from an old New Orleans Creole family. James Dennett was an assistant quartermaster for the Confederacy in New Orleans prior to the Federals taking the city in 1862. Marie's great grandfather Christoval Toledano (1790-1869) was a sugar merchant and the son of Don Manuel Toledano y Valenzuela (1763-1806), a Spanish military official who arrived in New Orleans in the 1790s. Christoval served in Plauche's Battalion in the War of 1812 and fought at the Battle of New Orleans. The McIntyres were the parents of six children, who grew up primarily in Washington, DC: Frank Jr. James, Edward, Margaret, Marie, and Nora. James continued the military tradition established by his father and retired as a major general in the United States Air Force. He served as the legislative liaison for the Air Force to Congress in the late 1940s, and is credited with helping establish the Air Force as an independent branch of the military through his efforts to help pass the National Security Act of 1947. McIntyre's descendants include great grandsons David and Tom Gardner, co-founders of the Motley Fool.\n\nMcIntyre awards and decorations included the French Legion of Honour, and invested as a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath from Great Britain, and the Army Distinguished Service Medal.\n\nHe died on February 16, 1944 at age 78, while on a vacation trip to Miami Beach, Florida. McIntyre was buried at Arlington National Cemetery.\n\n", "id": "7735571", "categories": ["1944 deaths", "American military personnel of World War I", "Recipients of the Distinguished Service Medal (United States)", "American people of Irish descent", "United States Army generals", "1865 births", "American military personnel of the Spanish–American War", "Military personnel from Montgomery, Alabama", "United States Military Academy alumni", "United States Army generals of World War I"], "title": "Frank McIntyre"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735577", "text": "USS McCloy\n\nUSS \"McCloy\" (FF-1038) was the second and final . Commissioned as a destroyer escort, \"McCloy\" was redesignated as frigate on 30 June 1975. Decommissioned on 14 December 1990, and stricken from the Navy list on 4 October 1991, \"McCloy\" was transferred to Mexico on 12 November 1993, where she was recommissioned as \"Nicolas Bravo\". Named for Lt. Comdr. John C. McCloy, recipient of two Medals of Honor.\n\n\"McCloy\"s keel was laid down by the Avondale Shipyard, Inc., Westwego, Louisiana, 15 September 1961; launched 9 June 1962; sponsored by Mrs. Arthur Winstead; and commissioned 21 October 1963, at Charleston, South Carolina, Comdr. Thomas Sherman in command.\n\nFollowing outfitting and shakedown \"McCloy\", assigned to Escort Squadron 10, reported to her home port, Newport, Rhode Island, in January 1964. In October, after further specialized training, she commenced training sonar technicians. Employed primarily as a schoolship throughout 1965, she also tested new anti-submarine warfare (ASW) weapons systems for the Operational Test and Evaluation Force. During this period she enhanced her training and testing capabilities as well as her operational abilities by participating in joint United States-Canadian exercises in the spring and fall and in ASW exercises at the end of the year.\n\nIn 1966 cruises saw her in the Bermuda area for NATO exercises (April); off the New England and Virginia coasts for convoy escort and ASW exercises (June, July, and August); and in the Caribbean for fleet tactical exercises (November–December). From 16 January until 24 May 1967 she participated in exercise Matchmaker III. This operation, which took \"McCloy\" from the Caribbean to northern Europe, was conducted jointly by American, Dutch, British, and Canadian ships. In what was called \"Cross Pollinization,\" \"McCloy\" men transferred to the Dutch destroyer and the British frigate while men of those ships came on board the American escort vessel. also participated in the exercise.\n\n\"McCloy\" spent the last half of 1967 and the first months of 1968 at Boston, Massachusetts, undergoing overhaul. She got underway again in March and sailed south, the next month, for refresher training at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Returning to Newport in June, she departed again 8 July for another extended cruise. On 11 July she arrived at San Juan, Puerto Rico where she joined naval units of the United States, Brazil, and Colombia for UNITAS IX. On 15 July, they commenced a clockwise circumnavigation of South America which first involved ships and planes of eight nations in exercises in the Atlantic, then around the Horn to the Pacific for more of the same, and finally through the Panama Canal back into the Caribbean before the end of the year. She continued her operations in the Atlantic into 1969.\n\n\"McCloy\" was reclassified as a frigate (FF-1038) on 30 June 1975.\n\n\"McCloy\" deployed to the Mediterranean from January to June 1981. During this time frame, her Passive Anti-Submarine Towed Array Sonar Surveillance System (TASS) proved highly capable and successful in extensive tracking of submarines. \"McCloy\" returned to her home port in Norfolk, Virginia in June 1981 only to be sent to sea again on short notice to conduct additional Special ASW operations in the Bermuda \"Box\". \"McCloy\" departed Norfolk for another Mediterranean Deployment (MED 5–82) from July to December 1982. Using her primary weapon system, her TASS passive sonar system (a system of passive hydrophones towed behind the ship), she was immediately assigned to tracking of Soviet submarines in the Mediterranean.\n\nAdditionally in September 1982, \"McCloy\" was stationed at the entrance to Beirut, Lebanon harbor where an active conflict was ongoing between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO). She was assigned and completed the escort of nine ships used in the United Nations-arranged PLO evacuation from Beirut, escorting the ships to safe haven ports in the Mediterranean.\n\n\"McCloy\" received a Meritorious Unit Commendation (MUC) for unsurpassed ASW accomplishments from 8 June to 22 December 1982 during this deployment. She also received the Sixth Fleet \"Hook Em\" Award and was designated as the Best ASW Ship in the Atlantic Fleet during the period 1 October 1980 to 31 March 1982 by Commander Naval Surface Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet. Following this highly successful Med deployment, \"McCloy\" again conducted Special ASW Operations in the Western Atlantic Bermuda \"Box\" environment.\n\nOn 31 October 1983, \"McCloy\" snagged the , a Soviet Victor III-class nuclear-powered attack submarine with her towed array, causing damage to the submarine's propeller. The submarine was towed to Cienfuegos, Cuba for repairs by a Soviet salvage ship beginning on 5 November 1983.\n\nIn the late 1980s, \"McCloy\" was involved in drug interdiction operations in the Caribbean Sea with a United States Coast Guard law enforcement detachment on board. She was involved in several large drug busts including a 50-ton marijuana seizure from the vessel \"Sea Wanderer\" in November 1986.\n\nOn 27 April 1988 \"McCloy\" assisted submarine rescue vessel and salvage ship in conducting rescue operations following a fire on submarine .\n\n\"McCloy\" was decommissioned on 14 December 1990, stricken from the Naval Vessel Register on 17 December 1990, and transferred to Mexico on 1 October 1993 along with her sister ship . In the Mexican Navy, \"McCloy\" was renamed ARM \"Nicolás Bravo\" (E40) for Nicolás Bravo, a Mexican politician and soldier. As of June 2010, \"Nicolás Bravo\" was still in service with the Mexican Navy.\n\n\n", "id": "7735577", "categories": ["Bronstein-class frigates", "Bravo-class frigates", "Cold War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States", "Active frigates of Mexico", "1962 ships", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana"], "title": "USS McCloy"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735595", "text": "USS Richard L. Page\n\nUSS \"Richard L. Page\" (FFG-5) was a \"Brooke\" class frigate in the United States Navy.\n\n\"Richard L. Page\" was laid down on 4 January 1965 by the Bath Iron Works, Bath, Maine. She was launched on 4 April 1966, sponsored by Miss Edmonia Lee Whittle and Mrs. Nannie Page Trinker, granddaughters of the ship's namesake, Brigadier General Richard L. Page, and commissioned as a guided missile destroyer escort at Boston, Massachusetts on 5 August 1967 with the hull number DEG-5, Commander Milton J. Schultz, Jr., USN, in command.\n\nIn mid-October 1967, \"Richard L. Page\" moved from Boston to her homeport of Naval Station Newport, Rhode Island, then sailed south for shakedown exercises in the Caribbean. On 21 December 1967, she returned to Newport and, after post-shakedown availability, began operations with Escort Squadron SIX (CORTRON 6). Into 1968, she operated in the western Atlantic and, in the fall, she deployed to the Mediterranean for duty with the 6th Fleet. On that duty until 10 February 1969, she returned to Newport on 18 February and in March 1969 resumed operations with the 2nd Fleet. On 1 July 1969, she relieved as flagship of Destroyer Division ONE TWO(DESRON 12), then conducted exercises in the Caribbean.\n\n\"Richard L. Page\" spent all of 1971 and the first eight months of 1972 in port at Newport and in operations along the east coast of the United States and in the Caribbean. In mid-August 1972, she steamed out of Newport, bound for an extended deployment with the Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean.\n\nFrom 1973 to 1975, she was forward deployed to Athens, Greece, and on 30 June 1975 she was reclassified as a guided missile frigate with the new hull number of FFG-5. Returning from Europe, \"Richard L. Page\" underwent a year-long modernization overhaul, returning to the Atlantic Fleet and a new homeport of Naval Station Norfolk, Virginia in 1976. Over the next four years, she repeatedly deployed to the Mediterranean, Middle East, the eastern coast of Africa, and Northern Europe, interspersed with brief periods in her stateside homeport of Norfolk.\n\nDuring this same four year period, in 1979, \"Richard L. Page\" was the recipient of both the Battle Efficiency \"E\" that year from Commander, Naval Surface Force Atlantic, designating her as the best guided missile frigate among all guided missile frigates in the U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and the Battenberg Cup, designating her as the surface warship with the highest operational excellence of any warship in the entire U.S. Atlantic Fleet.\n\nIn early 1980, she temporarily relocated to Philadelphia Naval Shipyard where she received various sonar and electronic warfare system upgrades before returning to the Fleet in August 1980. She then completed independent operations in the Caribbean and Western Atlantic, and following completion of Refresher Training (REFTRA) at Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, returned to Norfolk to participate in Exercise SOLID SHIELD 81. During the rest of 1981, she operated as a unit of Standing NATO Maritime Group 1|Standing Naval Force Atlantic]].\n\nDeploying in late 1983, she joined the carrier battle group, deploying to both the Mediterranean, where she supported both the U.S. 6th Fleet and multinational peacekeeping forces in Lebanon, and to the North Atlantic and Norway as part of Cold War operations as a deterrent force to the Red Banner Northern Fleet of the Soviet Navy. Following her return to Norfolk in 1984, \"Richard L. Page\" underwent another yard period overhaul at Bath Iron Works in Maine before returning to the Fleet from 1986. In 1987, with the acquisition of the newer Oliver Hazard Perry\" class guided missile frigates nearly complete, a decision was made to retire the entire Brooke\" class of frigates from the U.S. Navy in 1988 and 1989 and earmark them for transfer to a foreign navy.\n\n\"Richard L. Page\" remained in U.S. naval service until decommissioned on 30 September 1988. Earlier, in 1982, the Reagan administration approved a US$3.2 billion military and economic aid package to Pakistan. As part of that package, Pakistan acquired \"Richard L. Page\" on a five-year lease in 1989. On 31 March 1989, she was leased to Pakistan, recommissioned in the Pakistani Navy and renamed PNS \"Tabuk\" (D-163).\n\nHowever, as a result of the Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan in February 1989, President George H. W. Bush was advised a few months later to no longer certify that Pakistan was not involved in the development of nuclear weapons in accordance with the Pressler Amendment, which banned most economic and military assistance to Pakistan unless the President certified on an annual basis that \"Pakistan does not possess a nuclear explosive device and that the proposed United States assistance program will reduce significantly the risk that Pakistan will possess a nuclear explosive device.\" The Pressler Amendment was subsequently invoked on 1 October 1990. The lease of the ship expired in March 1994 and she was returned to United States control that same month.\n\nAs a result, the ship was struck from the Navy Vessel Register on 12 January 1994 and transferred to the Maritime Administration (MARAD) for disposal on 28 March 1994. On 29 March 1994, the ex-\"Richard L. Page\" was returned to the U.S. Navy, acting as executive agent for the MARAD, at Singapore and sold to Trusha Investments Pte. Ltd. c/o Jacques Pierot, Jr. & Sons Inc., New York City, N.Y. for $626,850.00 for eventual scrapping.\n\nDuring her service with the U.S. Navy, \"Richard L. Page\" was awarded the Navy Unit Commendation, the Meritorious Unit Commendation with 1 bronze star (2 awards), the Navy E Ribbon (2 awards), the Navy Expeditionary Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal and the Navy Sea Service Deployment Ribbon.\n\nThe ship and crew was also the 1979 recipient of the Battenberg Cup.\n\n", "id": "7735595", "categories": ["Brooke-class frigates", "Ships built in Bath, Maine", "Cold War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States"], "title": "USS Richard L. Page"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735599", "text": "USS Julius A. Furer\n\nUSS \"Julius A. Furer\" (FFG-6) was a in the United States Navy.\n\n\"Julius A. Furer\" was launched 22 July 1966 by the Bath Iron Works, Bath, Maine; and sponsored by Mrs. Julius A. Furer, widow of Rear Admiral Julius A. Furer. She was commissioned on 11 November 1967 at the Boston Naval Shipyard with CDR. Peter A. Stark, Jr. in command. \n\n\"Julius A. Furer\" was decommissioned on 31 January 1989, and leased to Pakistan as PNS \"Badr\". She was struck from the Naval Vessel Register on 2 February 1994, and disposed of by Navy title transfer to the United States Maritime Administration, 28 March 1994.\n\n\n", "id": "7735599", "categories": ["Brooke-class frigates", "Cold War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States", "1966 ships", "Ships built in Bath, Maine"], "title": "USS Julius A. Furer"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735616", "text": "Yoriko Dōguchi\n\n\n", "id": "7735616", "categories": ["Living people", "1965 births", "Actresses from Tokyo"], "title": "Yoriko Dōguchi"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735632", "text": "Justice Pain\n\nChristopher Wilson (born May 16, 1978) is an American retired professional wrestler better known by his ring name, Justice Pain. Pain is best known for his time in Combat Zone Wrestling, as well as Xtreme Pro Wrestling and Pro Wrestling Unplugged. He held numerous titles in his CZW stint and is the real life brother of CZW wrestler and former tag team partner Nick Gage.\n\nJustice Pain was trained by John Zandig at the CZW Wrestling School. He began his career as one of the main wrestlers in the company along with other graduates from the school, such as Lobo and Nick Gage. Pain feuded with Lobo, and wrestled him at the first ever \"Cage of Death\" in the first ever Cage of Death match. Pain won the match and defeated Lobo for the CZW Iron Man Championship. Justice Pain would also compete against Lobo in the Cage of Death at \"Cage of Death II\" and defeated him for the CZW Heavyweight Championship.\n\nJustice Pain is well known for forming the original H8 Club with Wifebeater. While still holding the heavyweight championship, Justice Pain also won the tag team championship with Wifebeater. Around this time, a new H8 Club was formed with Nick Gage and Nate Hatred. This new team defeated Justice Pain and Wifebeater for the tag championship. After losing the titles, Justice Pain began teaming with The Backseat Boyz and started a feud with Wifebeater. The feud ended at \"Cage of Death III\" where Pain defeated Wifebeater in the Cage of Death. Justice Pain continued feuding with Nick Gage and Nate Hatred, but left CZW in 2003 to join Xtreme Pro Wrestling.\n\nDuring his tenure in Xtreme Pro Wrestling (XPW) he feuded with Chris Candido, defeating Candido twice with the final bout being on the last show in the history of XPW.\nWhen he returned in 2004, he reformed the H8 Club with Wifebeater. They teamed up to face Nick Gage and Nate Hatred at \"Cage of Death VI\" with the winners having the right to call themselves the H8 Club. At the end of the match, Nick Gage turned on Nate Hatred and allowed Justice Pain to pin Hatred. After this, Pain turned on Wifebeater and joined his real life brother as the new H8 Club. They won the tag team titles by defeating Team Cash in February 2005. At the end of 2005, Justice Pain once again competed in the Cage of Death match and came out on the winning side with partners Zandig and Nick Gage. That night, Lobo returned and joined them as well. During the next months, Pain teamed up with Nick Gage, Zandig, Lobo, and Dewey Donovan as The Forefathers of CZW. The Forefathers would later break up due to problems between Gage, Zandig, and Lobo.\n\nAt \"Night of Infamy V\", Justice Pain got a shot at Eddie Kingston for the world title, but did not win. Due to interference in the match, Pain was granted another shot at \"Cage of Death 8\" in a triple threat elimination match which also included Chris Hero. Pain eliminated Kingston by submission after Kingston's ankle was severely injured early in the match. After hitting Hero with the Pain Thriller, Justice Pain pinned him to win the title for a fifth time. In 2007, Pain retired.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7735632", "categories": ["Living people", "American male professional wrestlers"], "title": "Justice Pain"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735635", "text": "Thelonious Monk Quartet with John Coltrane at Carnegie Hall\n\nAt Carnegie Hall is a live album by The Thelonious Monk Quartet with John Coltrane.\n\nIt was recorded on 29 November 1957 at \"Thanksgiving Jazz\", a benefit concert produced by Kenneth Lee Karpe for the Morningside Community Center in Harlem. Other acts performing included: Billie Holiday, Dizzy Gillespie, Ray Charles, Sonny Rollins, and Chet Baker with Zoot Sims. The recording, by Voice of America, documents two sets by the Monk Quartet with Coltrane that night – an early set (tracks 1-5) and a late set (tracks 6-9), which the recording does not fully document.\n\nThe tape was stored at the Library of Congress where it sat untouched, until 2005 when it was discovered by recording lab supervisor Larry Appelbaum. The recording was then restored by producer Michael Cuscuna and T.S. Monk (Thelonious Monk's son).\n\nThe recording has been highly praised: \"Newsweek\" called it the \"musical equivalent of the discovery of a new Mount Everest,\" and Amazon.com editorial reviewer Lloyd Sachs called it \"the ultimate definition of a classic\". Soon after its release, it became the #1 best selling music recording on Amazon.com.\n\nThe discovery substantially increased coverage of Monk and Coltrane's partnership; the only other recordings known are from 4 sessions that took place in April, June and July of 1957 and originally issued on \"Thelonious Monk with John Coltrane\", \"Monk's Music\" and \"Thelonious Himself\". Additionally, \"Discovery!\" believed to document a reunion at the Five Spot café in 1958, recorded on amateur equipment by Coltrane's first wife.\n\nAll tracks composed by Thelonious Monk unless otherwise noted. \n\n\n", "id": "7735635", "categories": ["Live albums published posthumously", "Blue Note Records live albums", "Thelonious Monk live albums", "2005 live albums", "Albums produced by Michael Cuscuna", "John Coltrane live albums"], "title": "Thelonious Monk Quartet with John Coltrane at Carnegie Hall"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735643", "text": "Águilas del Zulia\n\nThe Águilas del Zulia () is a Venezuelan professional baseball team based in Maracaibo which plays in the Venezuelan Professional Baseball League.\n\nThe team was founded in 1969 and debuted in the 1969–70 season. The franchise began in 1946 as Sabios de Vargas, then was renamed Santa Marta BBC in 1954, before moving to Valencia and plays as the Industriales de Valencia from 1955–56 through 1967-68. The Industriales later moved to Acarigua and were renamed Llaneros de Acarigua for the 1968-69 season.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Liga Occidental de Béisbol Profesional in 1963, the Zulia state was left without a professional baseball team. In the following years there were many efforts to bring baseball back to the state, but the efforts were not realized until 1969, when the Águilas del Zulia joined the Venezuelan Professional Baseball League. Two baseball people were behind the formation of the team, Luis Rodolfo Machado B., main shareholder of the extinct Centauros de Maracaibo club, and Juan Antonio Yanes, former Patriotas de Venezuela owner.\n\nMachado found a group of local investors to buy the aforementioned Llaneros de Acarigua when the team folded after their only season in the VPBL. By then the Acarigua team was put up for sale by its owners after losing money for numerous years, including the hazardous Valencia Industriales experience. Among the investors were Simón Bromberg, Rubén Darío Barboza, Gabriel Fernández, Edgardo Fuenmayor Arrieta, Guillermo Echeto La Roche, Sixto Márquez, José Trinidad Martínez, Douglas Mavárez Granadillo, Ernesto Montiel, Fernando Pérez Amado, Vinicio Pineda Gil, Alberto Plumacher, Antonio Quintero Parra, Lucas Rincón Colmenares, Heberto Rutilio Ríos, and Hugo Suárez Romero.\n\nAfter receiving the approval of the VPBL President Franklin White and from the five other teams, the franchise was formally acquired by Machado's group. The team was bought for a sum of 400,000 million bolivars. The news of the return of professional baseball to the state was celebrated in Zulia.\n\nThe team made its official debut on October 14, 1969 at Estadio Antonio Herrera Gutiérrez against the Cardenales de Lara. The Águilas lost the game, 3–2, with Juan Quiroz pitching a complete game loss, while Pablo Torrealba was credited with the win and Ken Sanders earned the save. On the following day the team played and won its first game at Estadio Luis Aparicio El Grande.\n\nThe Aguilas' first years were troubled while posting losing records in most seasons. Nevertheless, the team survived these lean years to become one of the most successful VPBL teams in the early 1980s, winning five championship titles spanning 1984–2000.\n\nThe team's name of the \"Águilas\" (Eagles) is associated with the Zuliano region. It is said to be attributed to the Father Jose Manuel Ríos. In 1968, during a baseball game at Estadio Alejandro Borges in Maracaibo, Machado had asked Ríos if he had any suggestions for a baseball team's name, as he had just bought the Llaneros de Portuguesa. According to Machado, Ríos saw the label of the then popular \"Cerveza Zulia\" (Zulia beer) – whose bottle's label carried a blue eagle on a yellow background – and said that the Águilas would be a good name for the team. In addition, Ríos explained the Governmental Palace in Maracaibo is called \"El de las Águilas\" (The Place of the Eagles), and that many national flags and coats of arms have eagles on them. Thus, the team's name became the Águilas.\n\nFor the first time in five seasons the team qualified to the post-season, managed by former major league catcher John Russell. The performances of the rookie sensation and Arizona Diamondbacks outfield prospect Carlos González, led this rookie-filled team to a successful year, finishing second in the western division and third in the playoff race to the finals.\n\nForeign pitchers Chris Begg, Heath Totten and Jeremy Cummings were the heads of the pitching rotation, while the offensive was commanded by an MVP season by González, solid catching work of Humberto Quintero, and the performances of Juan Pablo Camacho, Orlando Muñoz and Luis Bolívar, who was named Rookie of the Year.\n\nReliever Richard Garcés reached his 100th save in the league, which inspired his rookie pitcher teammates, while another Aguilas' legend, former pitcher Wilson Álvarez, joined the team as their bullpen coach.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7735643", "categories": ["Sport in Maracaibo", "Current Venezuelan Professional Baseball League team rosters templates", "Zulia", "Baseball teams in Venezuela"], "title": "Águilas del Zulia"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735649", "text": "Steve Renko\n\nSteve Renko, Jr. (born December 10, 1944) is a former right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball. He played for the Montreal Expos (1969–1976), Chicago Cubs (1976–1977), Chicago White Sox (1977), Oakland Athletics (1978), Boston Red Sox (1979–1980), California Angels (1981–1982) and Kansas City Royals (1983).\n\nRenko attended the University of Kansas where he played baseball, basketball and American football.\n\nHe helped the Angels win the 1982 American League Western Division, with a win/loss of 11-6.\n\nHe was a 15-game winner in 1971 and 1973.\n\nHe led the National League in earned runs allowed (115) in 1971.\n\nHe led the National League in wild pitches (19) in 1974.\n\nHe ranks 99th on the career home runs allowed List (248).\n\nIn 15 seasons he had a 134-146 win-loss record, 451 games, 365 games started, 57 complete games, 9 shutouts, 36 games finished, 6 saves, 2,494 innings pitched, 2,438 hits allowed, 1,233 runs allowed, 1,107 earned runs allowed, 248 home runs allowed, 1,010 walks allowed, 1,455 strikeouts, 22 hit batsmen, 73 wild pitches, 10,704 batters faced, 86 intentional walks, 4 balks and a 3.99 earned run average. In 1979, he carried a no-hitter into the ninth inning against the Oakland A's in Oakland, only to be broken up by a Rickey Henderson double with one out in the bottom of the ninth. Renko pitched 5 career one-hitters.\n", "id": "7735649", "categories": ["Oakland Athletics players", "Tidewater Tides players", "Kansas City Royals players", "Baseball players from Kansas", "1944 births", "Living people", "Chicago White Sox players", "Basketball players from Kansas", "Montreal Expos players", "Jacksonville Suns players", "Kansas Jayhawks men's basketball players", "Memphis Blues players", "Players of American football from Kansas", "Williamsport Mets players", "Kansas Jayhawks baseball players", "American football quarterbacks", "Boston Red Sox players", "Auburn Mets players", "Sportspeople from Kansas City, Kansas", "Chicago Cubs players", "Kansas Jayhawks football players", "American expatriate baseball players in Canada", "Major League Baseball pitchers", "California Angels players"], "title": "Steve Renko"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735659", "text": "We Ride (I See the Future)\n\n\"We Ride (I See the Future)\" is a song by American recording artist Mary J. Blige. Recorded for her greatest hits album, \"Reflections (A Retrospective)\" (2006), it was released to US radio in the first week of November. Upon its release, it became a top ten hit in Italy and reached the top 20 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart.\n\n\"We Ride\" was produced by Bryan Michael Cox and Jon Jon Traxx, written by Cox and Johnta Austin. The premise of the song is a celebration of her newfound happiness with husband and manager, Kendu Isaacs. The song contains the lyrics \"from the day to the night we ride, I see the future, baby, you and I, better with time\" and Cox stated \"Mary's married, she's happy, in the best shape of her life, her voice is in the best shape of her life... people thought she was over, done, then she came through with \"The Breakthrough\" - \"We Ride\" celebrates all of that.\"\n\nThe music video for \"We Ride\" was shot in New York City in early November and directed by Erik White. and Costume Designed by June Ambrose, premiered on December 9, 2006 on MTV. The video opens up similar to the \"Be Without You\" music video, except it overlooks Los Angeles. Blige is singing in black with a black background then goes to her riding a blue bike. Another bike which is red and black appears which is Kendu. The two ride to the beach. From there it switches from Blige singing in a fur vest to Blige singing in a white dress in front of an orchestra, both on rocks on the beach, to the end of the video.\n", "id": "7735659", "categories": ["2006 songs", "Geffen Records singles", "Music videos directed by Erik White", "Songs written by Bryan-Michael Cox", "Songs written by Mary J. Blige", "Songs written by Johntá Austin", "2006 singles", "Mary J. Blige songs", "Songs written by Kendrick Dean"], "title": "We Ride (I See the Future)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735666", "text": "Jujutsu techniques\n\nJujutsu techniques include joint locks, chokeholds, strikes, grappling, throwing and other self-defense techniques.\n\nMajor categories of jujutsu techniques include, but are not limited to: joint locks, chokeholds, strikes, grappling, throwing and takedowns.\n\nJoint locks can be applied on anything that bends, such as fingers, wrists, elbows, shoulders or knees. Application of locks might include gaining purchase for throwing techniques, encouraging cooperation, submission, or restraining an aggressor. (Such techniques are taught to police forces.) Locks can also be utilised for interrogation/torture or controlling a prisoner prior to securing him using rope. In modern sporting contests, bouts are often concluded upon a submission resulting from a successful joint lock.\n\nChokeholds including gi-chokes/strangulations (with the lapel), and no-gi. Used primarily to kill or knock unconscious. In combat, a choking technique might permanently dissociate the windpipe from the ligament supporting it, causing death by asphyxiation. Strangulation techniques may also be used for non-lethal subduing of an opponent. Fully blocking the bloodflow to the brain will knock an opponent unconscious in 3 to 7 seconds. To kill by strangulation would take just over a minute before brain death occurs. In modern competition, chokes are normally banned (although they are permitted in judo competition). Strangulation is more popular in competition as they can be applied without fatal consequence, so full leverage can be applied to aid restraining of the competitor. In Jujutsu, there are many counters to choking or strangling attacks. This may have contributed to Jujutsu's popularity in self-defence applications.\n\nStrikes are generally taught, though the specific strike preferences vary by system. In Jujutsu, all known striking techniques are available as tools; nothing is excluded by doctrine. It is the application of those tools that distinguishes different systems of Jujutsu. \n\n<nowiki> </nowiki>Jujutsu emphasises the control of an opponent's balance, and therefore most systems of Jujutsu do not advocate any kicks targeted above the Celiac plexus. \n\nAtemi is the art of striking pressure points or physiological targets for \"kuzushi\" (breaking balance) or to incapacitate an opponent. Atemi is the art of striking the human body in order to cause specific physiological effect for various applications. The term \"atemi\" is sometimes applied to any technique whose primary purpose is to distract an opponent, setting the opponent up for another technique.\n\nGrappling techniques are also common. Simple grappling was incorporated into early Jujutsu systems for use in combat. More elaborate grappling techniques and strategies were likely developed for use in sporting contests in the ancient world. Such techniques have been re-introduced into the Japanese martial arts in post-reformation systems such as Judo and related Brazilian jiu-jitsu systems. In post-reformation Japan, Japanese martial arts were altered under the auspices of Kanō Jigorō and his contemporaries. The emphasis on Samurai combat skills was degraded in preference to systems that could be practiced by anyone of any age for healthy physical education, sport and self-defense. Because of this new emphasis, grappling skills have been adapted to safe sporting environments, where gouging, biting, and other unsporting techniques are banned. Only a few schools maintain the old samurai grappling techniques and training practices. The majority of schools utilise Judo training or a more combative form of grappling.\n\nTakedown is a term for a technique that involves off-balancing an opponent and bringing him or her to the ground, typically with the combatant performing the takedown landing on top. Takedowns are usually distinguished from throws by the forward motion and target of advancement (typically the legs), although in some systems of terminology, throwing techniques are a type of takedown.\n\nThere are differences in application of the same technique between styles of Jujutsu that range from the minor to the major.\n\nWhen performing a forward shoulder roll, some styles roll on the back of the lead-hand (i.e., palm up), and some roll palm-down. While performing a backward shoulder roll, land on your far side hip, palm down.\n\nSome styles perform wrist locks (or, \"peels\") with the bottom 3 fingers and don't use the index finger, and some use the top 3 fingers keep the pinky off. The intent of both approaches is the same: do not block the opponent's wrist during a peel.\n\nSome styles advocate using \"live hand\" (hand open) for an armbar takedown, whereas some advocate making a fist. Adherents of each approach claim \"more power\", though the closed-fist approach arguably offers the additional benefit of reducing the possibility of a finger getting accidentally snagged.\n\nOn a hip throw off the right hip (for example), the most common way this throw is taught is to grab the uke's right arm with the left hand. Some styles, however, teach \"wrapping\" the uke's right arm with the left instead of the grab. Biomechanically, the most effective method is to grab the right upper arm using a monkey style grip. Using this method, one grips the opponent's left arm using the 4 fingers and the thumb against the palm, (instead of gripping with the thumb against the 4 fingers). The reason for using this grip rather than a normal human gripping action is that the thumb gripping against the 4 fingers is weaker in strength than the grip applied by the 4 fingers and thumb against the palm (as monkeys do when gripping the branch of a tree to swing). Grabbing the upper arm rather than the wrist allows the body greater pulling torque.\n\nLikewise, on hip throws, some systems grab around the waist (or in ignorance, the belt), and some systems prefer to wrap tori’s right arm under the uke's left. One should never grip the opponent’s belt; modern attire may not include a belt. In fact, grabbing the belt is not necessary. Simply grabbing around the waist (so long as the grip is all the way around the waist) works better anyway. One should note that it feels easier to grab your opponent’s waist with your right arm than it does wrapping your right arm around their left arm. Biomechanically, grabbing the opponent higher up the back (such as at the shoulder) can allow the opponent to bend at the waist making the hip throw more difficult. The sequence of actions required for the hip throw is: block, parry or deflect the opponent's punch if necessary, effect kuzushi, bend the knees and turn whilst pulling the opponent over your hip.\n\nThe biggest conceptual difference is when grappling is taught, whether a style views grappling as a sport, or grappling as a necessity of balanced self-defense training (or both). Both applications have merit, and the training will have a considerable amount of overlap, but will also have important differences. The latter approach will need to understand the fundamentals of the grappling positional hierarchy like the former, but the priority will be to get off the ground (and get away) as fast as possible. It is also a very good technique to use when near an opponent.\n\n\n", "id": "7735666", "categories": [], "title": "Jujutsu techniques"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735685", "text": "Shire of Beverley\n\nThe Shire of Beverley is a local government area in the Wheatbelt region of Western Australia about southeast of Perth, the state capital. The Shire covers an area of , starting outside Armadale in the Darling Scarp and extending eastwards beyond the scarp into agricultural lands which support broad acre activities such as livestock and cropping. Its seat of government is the town of Beverley, which accommodates just over half of the Shire's population.\n\nIn 1871, the Beverley Road District was established with immense boundaries, taking in land all the way east to Eucla on the South Australian border. Its scope was so broad that from 1892 to 1913, the town of Beverley had its own municipal council operating separately from the Road Board. However, over the years, each of the major towns were granted their own road boards, and by 1923 the present boundaries were established. In 1961, the Road District was renamed the Shire of Beverley.\n\nThe Shire is divided into three wards, which became effective on 2 May 1987.\n\n\nPrior to 1986, the Shire was represented by eight councillors across four wards which had existed in some form since the amalgamation of the Municipal District in 1913:\n\n\n\n", "id": "7735685", "categories": [], "title": "Shire of Beverley"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735686", "text": "South African Class GL 4-8-2+2-8-4\n\nThe South African Railways Class GL 4-8-2+2-8-4 of 1929 was an articulated steam locomotive.\n\nIn 1929 and 1930, the South African Railways placed eight Garratt articulated steam locomotives with a 4-8-2+2-8-4 Double Mountain type wheel arrangement in service. Built at Beyer, Peacock and Company's Gorton Foundry, they were originally designed to work on the Durban to Cato Ridge section of the Natal mainline. The Class GL was eventually displaced to the route between Glencoe and Vryheid before spending their final working years operating on the line from Stanger to Empangeni.\n\nThe Class GL had its origin in the steady increase in loads experienced by the Natal mainline in the years prior to the First World War. The old Natal mainline had gradients of 1 in 30 (3⅓%) whilst the newer line, relocated to provide an easier route, still had of near-uninterrupted 1 in 66 (1½%) gradients. Moreover, the tight curvature of the line with curves of as little as radius precluded the use of large, long wheelbased, non-articulated locomotives and restricted them to a coupled wheelbase of . These factors combined with ever-increasing train weights ensured that the line rapidly became a bottleneck.\n\nThe decision to electrify the line from Glencoe Junction to Durban had been taken in 1914, coincidentally the year in which the South African Railways (SAR) ordered its first Cape gauge Garratt, the Class GA. Electrification was placed in abeyance along with the delivery of the Class GA until the end of the First World War.\n\nDespite this delay, the process of electrification began in earnest in 1922 and by 1926 full electrified haulage had been instituted between Glencoe and Pietermaritzburg, with lashups of three electric locomotives being used on the heaviest freights. These trains were then hauled onward to Durban by a pair of Class 14 4-8-2 steam locomotives.\n\nThe success of the Class GA Garratt in proving the suitability of the Garratt design for South African conditions coupled with the economies in crew, fuel and water consumption it offered, provided an incentive for the SAR to consider a new Garratt class for use on the Natal mainline. The aim was to eliminate double-heading as a regular practice with such a locomotive to be equivalent to three of the Class 1E electric locomotives which were then in use, or two Class 14 steam locomotives.\n\nColonel F.R. Collins DSO, the Chief Mechanical Engineer (CME) of the SAR from 1922 to 1929, prepared the specifications and the contract for the design and construction of these locomotives, the Class GL, was awarded to Beyer, Peacock and Company (BP). The locomotive was to be approximately equal to two Class 14 locomotives in power output with a maximum permitted axle loading of owing to the use of rail on both sections of the mainline, and a maximum all-up weight of .\n\nSince these locomotives would be some 48% larger and more powerful than any locomotive previously employed on the SAR and up to twice the track gauge in width, the initial order was for two prototype locomotives only, with more to follow should they prove successful. They were delivered in September 1929 and were erected in the Durban shops, numbered 2350 and 2351, and placed in service in October. They proved to be so successful that the remaining six locomotives were quickly ordered for delivery in 1930. These six entered service in July 1930, numbered in the range from 2352 to 2357.\n\nAt the time, they were the most powerful steam locomotives to be placed in service anywhere in the Southern Hemisphere and attained the objective of constructing a locomotive to approximately equal the power output of two Class 14 locomotives. Bishop, Natal Locomotive Superintendent, took part in the design process and successfully carried out the initial tests. On their first test run, despite the cut-off on these locomotives being limited to 65%, were hauled from Durban to Cato Ridge in 163 minutes, compared to in 184 minutes for a Class 14. Moreover, this was achieved on half throttle and with the cut-off set at 45%.\n\nThis suggested that the Class GL had still more to give, which was confirmed on the following day's testing when a load of was hauled over the same stretch of track. As a result of these tests, the further six Class GL locomotives were ordered for delivery in 1930. Apart from demonstrating the Class GL's power and capacity for hauling heavy trains, these tests also showed that their running qualities were exceptional, being smooth and free-running machines. In many ways, the Class GL set a design standard which was followed later in the Class GM, Class GMA and Class GO.\n\nThe Class GL embodied comparatively few features of any particular novelty. Instead, they were designed to make the best possible use of existing technologies to produce a locomotive of great power, efficiency and reliability. Their all-up weight of coupled with their axle loading closely matched the limits laid down by the SAR and was considered by Lionel Wiener, author of \"Articulated Locomotives\", to show \"such mastery in general and detail design that we have pleasure on congratulating Messrs. Beyer, Peacock & Co. on this achievement.\" Their tractive effort of at 75% of boiler pressure remained the highest of any locomotive on the SAR for the duration of the steam era.\n\nThe main frames were thick cut bar frames. On the SAR, the bar frame had previously only been employed on the German-built Class GCA 2-6-2+2-6-2 Garratt.\n\nThe Class GL made use of Beyer, Peacock's standard lever-actuated Sterling-type steam-operated power reverser and a Pyle National Company turbo-generator. The piston valves were modern straight-ported types with long-lap, long-travel valves, used for the first time in a South African Garratt which made the Class GL very free-running and more efficient than its predecessors. The cylinders, of the same bore and stroke as those of the Class 14, drove the third coupled axles using long connecting rods which stabilised the locomotive by reducing vertical forces at the crosshead to a minimum. This method of design became the standard on most Beyer-Garratts thereafter.\n\nTo allow for the tight curves, including radius bends with superelevation without any intermediate tangent and the steep, twisting nature of the line, the front engine unit's pivot bearing was spherical, with its alignment controlled by sprung rollers. The rear pivot was the usual Beyer, Peacock flat adjustable type.\n\nThe boiler was of exceptional size with an inside diameter of , double the track gauge. It used a top feed and contained 263 small tubes of outside diameter and 50 large tubes of outside diameter, while the superheater elements were of diameter. The round-topped firebox with its grate area was fired by a duplex mechanical stoker, the only class on the SAR which had this feature. The firebox contained two Nicholson thermic syphons and two arch tubes. Clyde Superior soot blowers were fitted on each side of the firebox. Beyer, Peacock estimated the Class GL locomotive's economical coal consumption rate at per hour.\nThe Class GL had a rocking grate and self-cleaning hopper ashpan with water and steam sprayers to dampen down the ash to prevent it from entering axle boxes, motion areas and other friction-sensitive places. They had self-cleaning type smokeboxes and their axle boxes were grease-lubricated.\n\nThe locomotives were equipped with a Sturtevant powered fan blower to supply fresh air to the cab, sucked from ahead of the chimney and driven by a steam turbine in deference to the eleven tunnels on this section which totalled to almost , the longest being the Shongweni tunnel at . This proved less than satisfactory, as did the smoke deflecting cowls over the chimneys of the second batch of locomotives. These cowls were controlled by steam-operated cylinders and, when not required, could be withdrawn longitudinally from the position over the chimney orifice. Since Garratts are designed to be bi-directional, the problem was eventually solved by simply running them with the chimney trailing on the ascending legs of the tunneled routes.\n\nOwing to limitations in the length of sidings and crossing loops, the Class GL's allowed loads were originally from Durban to Cato Ridge and coastward, despite having shown themselves capable of greater loads. They were eventually marshalled to standard loads of between to correspond with the load which could be hauled by a lashup of three electric locomotives.\nDuring April 1931, no. 2351 hauled a special train conveying the Governor-General of South Africa, His Excellency the Earl of Athlone and Princess Alice. The Governor-General and the Princess travelled on the footplate from Cato Ridge to Umlaas and expressed keen delight at the experience, which led to the Princess granting the SAR permission to name the locomotive on which she had travelled after her. The name plates were affixed to the cabsides above the number plates.\n\nIn 1947, no. 2352 was the Garratt selected to haul the Royal Train between Glencoe and Piet Retief while sister engine no. 2355 hauled the pilot train over the same section.\n\nUpon completion of the electrification project between Durban and Pietermaritzburg in 1938, the eight locomotives were transferred from the Durban section to the gruelling run between Glencoe and Vryheid with the latter's coal trains. This work entailed the regular haulage of up gradients of 1 in 50, taxing the Class GL even more heavily than the work for which it was designed. Despite this, they maintained an effective service along this line until its electrification in 1968.\n\nThe Class GL was then transferred from Glencoe to work the line between Stanger and Empangeni in the late 1940s. However, since the loads on this route did not fully justify the use of the powerful Class GL while their great weight and high axle loading restricted them to mainlines laid with heavy rail, they were eventually replaced by less powerful, more modern and more economical Class GMA locomotives. Though briefly considered as hump shunters at Bloemfontein, the Class GL had outlasted its use and after some forty-two years of working the most difficult terrain on the SAR, they were withdrawn from service in 1972.\n\nOf the eight locomotives, only the first two survived. No. 2351 \"Princess Alice\" is preserved at the Outeniqua Transport Museum in George. \n\nNo. 2352 was allocated to the National Collection of the South African Railway Museum. It was staged at Greyville Loco in Durban at the time and the Loco Foreman at Greyville was asked to prepare the engine for haulage up to Germiston Loco where it was intended to stage the engine. His response was that no engine would leave his Depot under haulage and that he would have it prepared to steam and travel up to Germiston under its own power, which it did in due course.\n\nThe development of the planned new museum was shelved indefinitely, however, and the condition of the locomotive gradually deteriorated where it stood at Germiston. Some eight years later, in 1983 the Museum of Science and Industry in Manchester after failing to acquire the East African Railways 59 class, 5930 \"Mount Shengena\" because of shipping costs,\nasked if they could acquire the engine for display in their institution since it had been built in that city by Beyer - Peacock. This request was granted and with the help of shipping sponsors, it arrived back in Manchester. By the time it was shipped to England, it was shorn of around two hundred parts including its right-hand-side ashpan and much of its brick arch.\n\nThe main picture shows no. 2351 \"Princess Alice\", c. 1930. The smoke deflecting cowl on the chimney, installed for tunnel working, was later removed.\n", "id": "7735686", "categories": ["Steam locomotives of South Africa", "Beyer, Peacock locomotives", "2D1+1D2 locomotives", "4-8-2+2-8-4 locomotives", "Garratt locomotives", "Cape gauge railway locomotives", "Railway locomotives introduced in 1929"], "title": "South African Class GL 4-8-2+2-8-4"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735689", "text": "Georgia High School Association\n\nThe Georgia High School Association (GHSA) is an organization that governs athletics and activities for member high schools in Georgia, USA. GHSA is a member of the National Federation of State High School Associations. The association has 455 public and private high schools as members. GHSA organizes all sports and academic competitions as well as overseeing registration, training, and approves local area sports officials associations to administer regional athletics and activities per member schools.\n\nMembership to the GHSA is voluntary and open to every high school in the state of Georgia, although participating private schools must have at least 150 students in their high school. Many private schools that do not enter the GHSA compete in the interscholastic organization of the Georgia Independent School Association (GISA). Member schools of the GHSA make most decisions by appointing region representatives who vote on proposals in the GHSA Executive Committee. Individual decisions by regions are made by the schools in the region on such issues as region tiebreakers and hosting of region tournaments. Members are divided into seven classes by size and then further divided into regions based on geographic locations.\n\nThe GHSA currently has seven classes, AAAAAAA, AAAAAA, AAAAA, AAAA, AAA, AA, and A, (called \"7A\",\"6A\", 5A\", \"4A\", \"3A\", \"2A\", and \"1A\" respectively) based on the schools' student population. Each class has eight regions, numbered 1 through 8, based on the geographic location of the schools involved. Region 1 of each class is usually the southernmost region, with the region numbers generally increasing as one moves north. Regions realign every two years. Regions generally have ten schools, but can range from 4 to 16 teams.\n\nClass 6A was created for the 2012–2013 school year and Class 7A for the 2016 -17 school year to accommodate growth in local schools.\n\nBoys athletics governed by the GHSA are: baseball, basketball, cross country, football, golf, lacrosse, riflery (co-ed), soccer, swimming, tennis, track, and wrestling. Girls athletics programs overseen by the GHSA include basketball, competition cheerleading (co-ed & non co-ed), cross country, golf, gymnastics, lacrosse, riflery, fast pitch softball, slow pitch softball, soccer, swimming, tennis, track, and volleyball.\n\nLiterary activities administered by the GHSA are dramatic interpretation, essay, GHSA Debate, extemporaneous speaking, one act plays, quartet, spelling, trio and vocal solo.\n\nFor the 2016–2017 season, GHSA has 455 member schools\n\n", "id": "7735689", "categories": ["High schools in Georgia (U.S. state)", "High school sports associations in the United States", "Sports organizations established in 1904"], "title": "Georgia High School Association"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735701", "text": "Ignatius Brianchaninov\n\nSaint Ignatius (secular name Dmitry Alexandrovich Brianchaninov, , ; 1807–1867) was a bishop and theologian of the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nHe was glorified (canonized) as a saint by the 1988 meeting of the Local Council of the Russian Orthodox Church. His relics are preserved at the ancient Tolga Monastery on the Volga River near Yaroslavl.\n\nDmitry Bryanchaninov was born in the manor of to one of the wealthiest landowning families of the Governorate of Vologda. He was educated at Main Military Engineering School in St. Petersburg.\n\nAlthough successful in his studies, he was deeply dissatisfied with the lay life and turned to a life of prayer. In 1827 he fell seriously ill and left the army on this ground. He began pursuing a monastic vocation and in 1831 took monastic vows and received the monastic name of Ignatius. He was ordained a priest shortly afterwards. He rose rapidly to the rank of archimandrite and at the age of 26 was appointed superior of the Maritime Monastery of St. Sergius in St. Petersburg. In 1857, Ignatius was consecrated Bishop of the Caucasus and the Black Sea, but he retired only four years later to the on the Volga to devote himself to spiritual writing.\n\nHe wrote a large amount of material, mostly about the spiritual life and prayer. Only a small portion of his writing has been translated into English. Although his writing was intended primarily for monks, his works are highly recommended for lay Christians by leading Orthodox figures such as Father Thomas Hopko.\n\nAvailable in English translation:\n\n\n", "id": "7735701", "categories": ["Military Engineering-Technical University alumni", "1807 births", "People from Vologda Governorate", "19th-century Eastern Orthodox bishops", "1867 deaths", "People from Gryazovetsky District", "Russian theologians", "Russian saints of the Eastern Orthodox Church", "Bishops of the Russian Orthodox Church"], "title": "Ignatius Brianchaninov"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735702", "text": "Jack the Writer\n\n\"Jack the Writer\" is the fourth episode of the first season of the American situation comedy \"30 Rock\", which aired on November 1, 2006 on the NBC network in the United States, and on November 1, 2007 in the United Kingdom. The episode was written by Robert Carlock and was directed by Gail Mancuso. Guest stars in this episode include Katrina Bowden, Keith Powell, Maulik Pancholy, Tom Broecker, Jonathan Lutz, James Anderson and Sharon Wilkins.\n\nThe episode focuses on the relationship between Liz Lemon (Tina Fey), head writer of \"TGS with Tracy Jordan\", and Jack Donaghy (Alec Baldwin), her boss; and the distractions the writers of \"TGS\" face when writing sketches. This becomes evident when Liz's assistant, Cerie (Katrina Bowden), wears sexually suggestive clothing; and when Jack decides to join the writers for observation. Kenneth Parcell (Jack McBrayer) learns that working for Tracy Jordan (Tracy Morgan), the main star of \"TGS\", is more than he expected.\n\nThe staff are preparing to write sketches for \"TGS with Tracy Jordan\" when Jack arrives and announces that he went through a program at General Electric (GE) called Six Sigma, which encourages bosses to interact with their staff. He tells Liz and the writers that he will be sitting in the writers' room every day as an observer. As days pass, Jack begins to interfere with the writers' work, and instead of just being an observer, he regularly gives the writers ideas for upcoming sketches. This causes a major frustration for the staff, so Liz tells Jack that the writers do not like his involvement. Jack says that although he enjoyed joining the writers every day, he tells Liz that he accepts their decision.\n\nAfterwards, Jack's secretary tells Liz that Jack wants her to apologize, but that she has to pretend that it was her idea. Liz goes to Jack's office and apologizes, and they forgive each other. While the staff eats their lunch, Jack introduces the staff to two of his guests. The writers mention to Liz that they would love to go outside to the same roof that is used for \"The Today Show\", and Liz tells them that she can make it happen now that she and Jack are friends. Liz asks Jack, but he denies the request. He tells her that the two guests were his bosses from GE, and then criticizes Liz and her staff. He apologizes to Liz, but she says that their friendship is over. Having settled the situation with Jack, Liz tries to talk to her assistant Cerie about her attire, which seems to distract the writers. Liz attempts to convince her to wear something conservative, but Cerie tells Liz that she would look great in something sexy herself, and Liz is later seen walking down the hallway with a dress that reads \"Dirty Diva\".\n\nKenneth, who is now working for Tracy, learns that working for Tracy is more than he expected. Tracy orders Kenneth to complete several tasks, including going to the Yankee Stadium for nachos, and picking up an important package, which turns out to be an illegal fish that Tracy wants to put in his aquarium. Tracy then tells Kenneth to buy something for his wife, Angie Jordan (Sharon Wilkins), and to take her to a fancy restaurant, where he gives her Tracy's gift.\n\n\"30 Rock\" and \"Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip\", both of which debuted on 2006–07 NBC lineup, revolved around the off-camera happenings on a sketch comedy series. Evidence of the overlapping subject matter between the shows, as well as the conflict between them, arose when Aaron Sorkin, the creator of \"Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip\", asked Lorne Michaels to allow him to observe \"Saturday Night Live\" for a week, a request Michaels denied. Despite this, Sorkin sent Fey flowers after NBC announced it would pick up both series, and wished her luck with \"30 Rock\". Fey wound up \"winning\" over Sorkin when \"Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip\" was cancelled after one season and \"30 Rock\" was renewed for a second. Though \"30 Rock\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s first season ratings proved lackluster and were lower than those of \"Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip\", the latter was more expensive to produce. \"Jack the Writer\" contains a self-referencing walk and talk sequence, which is commonly used on \"Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip\" and Sorkin's previous series.\n\n\"Star Wars\" is frequently referenced in \"30 Rock\", beginning with the pilot episode where Tracy Jordan is seen shouting that he is a Jedi. Liz Lemon admits to being a huge fan of \"Star Wars\", saying that she had watched it many times with Pete Hornberger (Scott Adsit), and saying she dressed up as the \"Star Wars\" character Princess Leia for several Halloweens. Fey, a fan of \"Star Wars\" herself, said that the weekly \"Star Wars\" joke or reference \"started happening organically\" when the crew realized that they had a \"Star Wars\" reference \"in almost every show\". Fey said that from then on \"it became a thing where [they] tried to keep it going\", and that even though they could not include one in every episode, they still had a \"pretty high batting average\". Fey attributed most of the references to Robert Carlock, who she described as \"the resident expert\". In this episode, Liz repeatedly uses analogies from \"Star Wars\" for her situation with Jack, when she realizes that she \"need[s] to get new DVDs\".\n\nAccording to the Nielsen ratings system, \"Jack the Writer\" was watched by approximately 4.61 million American viewers, ranking eighty-first in the weekly charts. The episode received a rating of 1.7/5 in the key adults 18–49 demographic. The 1.7 refers to 1.7% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and the 5 refers to 5% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. In the United Kingdom, the episode attracted 500,000 viewers and a 4% share of the viewing audience at the time of the broadcast.\n\nRobert Canning of IGN felt that while the episode was \"still an entertaining half-hour, there was nothing to it that was incredibly memorable.\" He said that Tracy Jordan was \"quickly becoming one of the more enjoyable aspects of the show\". Matt Webb Mitovich of \"TV Guide\" felt that \"this outing fell a bit flat for [him]\". He thought that \"the best moment this week, by far, had to be that big, fat wink to Aaron Sorkin's \"Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip\" (and \"West Wing\", and \"Sports Night\"... ), where Liz and Pete, upon realizing that they had traveled in a small circle over the course of a banter exchange, shrugged and said, 'Nice walk-and-talk', and then bumped fists. Nice.\"\n\n\n", "id": "7735702", "categories": ["30 Rock (season 1) episodes"], "title": "Jack the Writer"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735709", "text": "Lost time\n\nLost time is the term within traffic engineering for the time during which no vehicles are able to pass through an intersection despite the traffic signal displaying a green (go) signal. The total lost time is the sum of two separate elements: start-up lost time and clearance lost time. Start-up lost time happens when a traffic signal changes from red (stop) to green (go). Some amount of time elapses between the signal changing from red to green and the first queued vehicle moving through the intersection. There is then an additional amount of time for the next vehicle to begin moving and pass through the intersection, and so on. The total time taken for all waiting drivers to react and accelerate is the start-up lost time. Clearance lost time is the time lost to stopping a line of vehicles at the end of a green phase. Lost time is always measured in seconds.\n\nStart-up lost time can be calculated as the sum of the differences between the headways for the first cars in line and the average headway through the intersection at a theoretical maximum flow, the \"saturation flow rate\". When no observations have been made, the start-up lost time is assumed to be 2.0 seconds as a default value.\n\nSince clearance lost time is often not observable since observation requires that some vehicles which were waiting at the start of a green phase still be waiting when the green phase ends, it is typically determined through the equation \nformula_1, where formula_2 is the clearance lost time, formula_3 is the yellow time, formula_4 is the \"all-red interval\" time during which the traffic signal is red for all directions, and formula_5 is the portion of the yellow and all-red times during which vehicles are illegally in the intersection and has a default value of 2.0 seconds in HCM. ALDOT’s Traffic Signal Design Guide and Timing Manual, on the other hand, determines clearance lost time to be half of the yellow interval plus the entire all-red interval.\n\nIn order to find out how clearance lost time can be calculated see and. In this study, clearance lost time was measured in the field and compared with the default values specified in HCM and ALDOT’s manual.\n\n", "id": "7735709", "categories": [], "title": "Lost time"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735715", "text": "Australosuchus\n\nAustralosuchus is an extinct genus of crocodylian belonging to the subfamily Mekosuchinae.\n\nThe type and only known species \"Australosuchus clarkae\" lived during the Late Oligocene and the Early Miocene of southern Australia. The generic name \"Australosuchus\" means \"Southern crocodile\". It was described in 1991 from fossil material discovered at Lake Palankarinna in South Australia.\n", "id": "7735715", "categories": ["Taxa named by Ralph Molnar", "Mekosuchinae", "Oligocene crocodylomorphs", "Cenozoic reptiles of Australia", "Fossil taxa described in 1991", "Miocene crocodylomorphs"], "title": "Australosuchus"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735716", "text": "Songs of the Week\n\nSongs of the Week are a collection of songs by Coil distributed via their former primary website Brainwashed.com. Starting in October 1998, a \"Song of the week\" was made available for download. This feature ended sometime in August 1999. The series consisted of 26 tracks in mp3 format, each at a bit rate of 128kbs, except for track 10, which has a bitrate of 160kbs. The compilation is notable for being released with the band's permission and containing many exclusive song versions and tracks. Vinyl exclusive songs from this set were sourced from vinyl.\n\n\"The Dark Age of Love\" features Marc Almond on vocals.\n\nThis series of releases is commonly known as \"Black Gold\" in its 2XCD bootleg version.\n\n\n", "id": "7735716", "categories": ["1999 compilation albums", "Albums free for download by copyright owner", "1998 compilation albums"], "title": "Songs of the Week"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735733", "text": "Long Creek Falls (Georgia)\n\nLong Creek Falls is a waterfall located in Fannin County, Georgia. The falls are about 50 feet (15 meters) high and are fairly wide. The falls are located in Chattahoochee National Forest near Three Forks, and are accessible from the Appalachian Trail, the Benton MacKaye Trail, and the Duncan Ridge Trail. It is considered a serene destination for Atlanta city goers to seek out during the weekends, especially in October.\n\n", "id": "7735733", "categories": ["Protected areas of Fannin County, Georgia", "Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest", "Waterfalls of Georgia (U.S. state)"], "title": "Long Creek Falls (Georgia)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735751", "text": "Carolyn Kizer\n\nCarolyn Ashley Kizer (December 10, 1925 – October 9, 2014) was an American poet of the Pacific Northwest whose works reflect her feminism. She won the Pulitzer Prize in 1985.\n\nAccording to an article at the Center for the Study of the Pacific Northwest, \"Kizer reach[ed] into mythology in poems like \"Semele Recycled\"; into politics, into feminism, especially in her series of poems called \"Pro Femina\"; into science, the natural world, music, and translations and commentaries on Japanese and Chinese literatures\".\n\nKizer was born in Spokane, Washington, the daughter of a socially prominent Spokane couple.\n\nHer father, Benjamin Hamilton Kizer, who was 45 when she was born, was a successful attorney. Her mother, Mabel Ashley Kizer, was a professor of biology who had received her doctorate from Stanford University.\n\nKizer was once asked if she agreed with a description of her father as someone who \"came across as supremely structured, intelligent, polite but always somewhat remote\". Her reply: \"Add 'authoritarian and severe', and you get a pretty good approximation of how he appeared to that stranger, his child\". At times, she related, her father gave her the same \"viscera-shriveling\" voice she heard him use later on \"members of the House Un-American Activities Committee and other villains of the 50's, to even more devastating effect\", and, she added, \"I almost forgave him.\"\n\nAfter graduating from Lewis and Clark High School in Spokane, she went on to get her bachelor's degree from Sarah Lawrence College (where she studied comparative mythologies with Joseph Campbell) in 1945 and study as a graduate at both Columbia University (1945–46) and the University of Washington (1946–47).\n\nShe then moved back to Washington state, and in 1946 married Charles Stimson Bullitt, an attorney from a wealthy and influential Seattle family, with whom she had three children; Fred Nemo, Jill Bullitt, and Ashley Bullitt. In 1954 she enrolled in a creative writing workshop run by poet Theodore Roethke. \"Kizer had three small kids, a big house on North Capitol Hill, enough money to get by and more than enough talent and determination. And although one of her poems had been published in \"The New Yorker\" when she was 17, she remembers that she needed a nudge from Roethke to get serious.\"\nHer marriage to Bullitt ended in divorce in 1954.\nIn 1959, she helped found \"Poetry Northwest\" and served as its editor until 1965.\n\nShe was a \"Specialist in Literature\" for the U.S. State Department in Pakistan 1965–1966, during which she taught for several months in that country. \nIn 1966, she became the first director of Literary Programs for the newly created National Endowment for the Arts. She resigned that post in 1970, when the N.E.A. chairman, Roger L. Stevens, was fired by President Richard Nixon. She was a consultant to the N.E.A. for the following year.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, she held appointments as poet-in-residence or lecturer at universities across the country including Columbia, Stanford, Princeton, San Jose State University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She has been a visiting writer at literary conferences and events across the country, as well as in Dublin, Ireland, and Paris. Kizer was also a member of the faculty of the Iowa Writer's Workshop.\n\nShe was appointed to the post of Chancellor of the Academy of American Poets in 1995, but resigned three years later to protest the absence of women and minorities on the governing board.\n\nKizer was married to the architect-historian, John Marshall Woodbridge. When she was not teaching and lecturing, she divided her time between their home in Sonoma, California and their apartment in Paris.\n\nShe died on October 9, 2014 in Sonoma, California due to effects of dementia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7735751", "categories": ["American women poets", "Columbia University alumni", "Writers from Spokane, Washington", "Columbia University faculty", "1925 births", "American feminist writers", "University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill faculty", "Princeton University faculty", "University of Iowa faculty", "Iowa Writers' Workshop faculty", "University of Washington alumni", "Sarah Lawrence College alumni", "American socialites", "Pulitzer Prize for Poetry winners", "2014 deaths", "20th-century American women writers", "20th-century American poets", "San Jose State University faculty", "Stanford University faculty", "Deaths from dementia"], "title": "Carolyn Kizer"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735761", "text": "Jeff Ware (ice hockey)\n\nJeff Ware (born May 19, 1977) is a Canadian former National Hockey League (NHL) defenceman who played for the Toronto Maple Leafs and the Florida Panthers. He was selected by the Toronto Maple Leafs in the first round (15th overall) of the 1995 NHL Entry Draft.\n\nAs a youth, Ware played in the 1991 Quebec International Pee-Wee Hockey Tournament with the Toronto Marlboros minor ice hockey team. Ware attended high school at Lawrence Park Collegiate Institute in Toronto, Ontario and Henry Street High School in Whitby, Ontario.\n\nWare played major junior hockey for the Oshawa Generals of the Ontario Hockey League, where he won the league championship in 1997. During his junior career, he also won a gold medal with Team Canada at the World Juniors hockey tournament in Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nThe Toronto Maple Leafs drafted Ware in the first round, 15th overall, at the 1995 NHL Entry Draft. Ware played 21 career games in the NHL, tallying one assist and twelve penalty minutes. \n\nHe retired from hockey in 2002 following five knee surgeries, and went on to earn his Bachelor of Arts from the University of Toronto and Master of Business Administration from Columbia Business School in New York City.\n", "id": "7735761", "categories": ["Canadian ice hockey defencemen", "Ice hockey people from Ontario", "Toronto Maple Leafs players", "Florida Panthers players", "1977 births", "St. John's Maple Leafs players", "National Hockey League first round draft picks", "Living people", "Syracuse Crunch players", "Sportspeople from Toronto", "Toronto Maple Leafs draft picks", "Beast of New Haven players", "Oshawa Generals players", "Louisville Panthers players"], "title": "Jeff Ware (ice hockey)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735764", "text": "Ed W. Clark High School\n\nEd W. Clark High School, opened in 1965, is a nine-month magnet high school that is part of the Clark County School District and is located in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nThe campus was designed by architects Zick & Sharp, and constructed by the Del E. Webb Corporation in 1965.\n\n\"Touchstones for education: Rigor, Relevance, and Relationships\"\n\n\n\nClark High School is home to a number of performing groups, including the orchestra, band, and choir.\n\nThere is a beginning orchestra, for any student wishing to learn to play a classical string instrument, and intermediate and advanced orchestras for more experienced players. More proficient musicians may opt to audition for the chamber orchestra, which challenges students with a considerably advanced repertoire.\n\nOnce Marching season ends the marching band divides into two bands for the winter and spring seasons: the symphonic band (for intermediate musicians) and the wind ensemble (for advanced musicians). A drumline performs during the winter season, and there is a jazz band which has performed at Disneyland and on KLVX's Inside Education. \n\nThe chorus consists of several different groups. These include: All-men, All-women, Jazz, Concert, Advanced, and Chamber choirs.\n\nClark's full orchestra (consisting of orchestra and band) performed at Carnegie Hall in New York in 2008 and 2012. In March 2015, Clark's chamber orchestra performed at an ASTA national competition at Abravanel Hall in Salt Lake City. They placed as national and grand champions.\n\nLas Vegas Gakuen (ラスベガス学園), a Japanese weekend supplementary school, is held every Saturday at Clark High School. It was founded in September 1995.\n", "id": "7735764", "categories": ["Clark County School District", "High schools in Las Vegas", "1965 establishments in Nevada", "Public high schools in Nevada", "Magnet schools in Nevada", "Educational institutions established in 1965", "School buildings completed in 1965"], "title": "Ed W. Clark High School"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735802", "text": "Ford Falcon Cobra\n\nThe Cobra was a limited edition pony car of the Ford Falcon released by Ford Australia in 1978. It was based on the XC Hardtop (Coupe).\n\nIn 1978, Ford Australia unveiled plans for an all-new Falcon, dubbed the XD, that would be released in 1979. Unlike the current XC, the new model would be offered only as a four-door sedan or station wagon, meaning the two-door XC Hardtops of 1978 would be the last of that design.\n\nIn December 1977 Ford built 13 special order XC Falcon GS Hardtops with VINs beginning JG65TE. These cars were specially modified in the P&A (Parts and Accessories) workshop at Ford's Campbellfield factory. All vehicles were modified to accord with 'evolution' upgrades that had been approved by CAMS for homologation to Australian Group C touring car racing Falcons ... the changes were mostly designed to enhance race durability; these vehicles, often referred to as \"Pre-Cobras\", were intended to be raced by teams at Bathurst in 1977. The homologation modifications included rear wheel wells that were deepened inboard by 1 inch to accommodate larger racing wheels and tyres, a reverse bonnet scoop to allow the race car engines to draw cool air from the base of the windscreen, twin electric fans that were switchable from the dash (replacing the single engine-driven fan), a front shocker tower brace (\"K brace\") that stiffened the front end, an idler arm brace, and an aero package including a rear \"blade\" spoiler (similar to that used on the 2-door Holden Torana A9X) and a front air dam. The 13 cars were available in standard body and interior colours and retained the side trim strips, dummy rear brake scoops and unpainted chrome bumpers of the standard GS hardtops. The race cars did complete the 1977 Endurance Series in their new specification and then participated in the 1978 ATCC season.\n\nThe modifications that featured in these 13 GS Hardtops formed the basis of the specification for the 30 specific \"Option 97\" Cobra Hardtops built in 1978, although there were minor differences as the Option 97 cars also incorporated further evolution parts such as reinforced fan brackets and a deeper front spoiler. In addition the Option 97 cars received a black corduroy seat material and Scheel front seats to differentiate them from the Option 96 Cobras .\n\nWhen final production of the XC Hardtop at the Broadmeadows Assembly plant was ending in March 1978, more than 400 body shells were left unsold and Ford Australia faced a dilemma of how to shift them, rather than scrap them. When an original proposal to turn these cars into black and gold Playboy-themed cars (complete with \"bunny\" decals) was rejected as sending the wrong image for a family car company, Ford turned to Edsel Ford II, then the Deputy Managing Director of Ford Motor Company who was also M.D. of Ford Australia at that time (from 1978 to 1980). He and a local design team elected to capitalise on Allan Moffat and Colin Bond's crushing 1-2 finish at the 1977 Bathurst 1000 by creating a road car with a \"Shelby Mustang\" look that could be homologated for racing, while at the same time offering enthusiasts the opportunity to own a street-legal version of Moffat's race car. The first prototype Falcon Cobra was built in late April 1978 and production began that same July.\n\nThe cars were painted Bold Blue with an overlay of Sno White, with Olympic Blue accent stripes separating the two colours ... \"Cobra\" emblem decals, a throwback to Carroll Shelby's Mustangs of the 1960s, were affixed to the front fenders, along with a name decal at the rear. Unusually, the bodyshells were painted blue first, the intended area of blue stripes and sills then masked and the white coat painted over the top. Each of the cars was given its own individual serial number and fitted with a sequentially numbered plaque (from 001 to 400) on the dash. The first 200 Cobras produced were given the 5.8L 351 Cleveland V8, while the other 200 received the 4.9L 302 Cleveland ... the only exceptions to this being build number 001 is a 302ci (4.9 litre) V8 and build number 351 is a 351ci (5.8 litre) V8.\n\nCobras were available with either automatic or manual transmission. Standard equipment included four-wheel disc brakes, limited slip differential, 15-inch Bathurst Globe wheels, front & rear spoilers and dual exhaust. The interiors were uniformly black, with Cobra specific cloth seat inserts in black with blue stripes that match those on the outside body. Cars numbered from 002 to 0031 were known as \"Option 97\" specification, the so-called \"Bathurst Cobras\", fitted with parts to allow homologation for racing, including twin radiator fans switchable from the dash, a gearbox oil cooler, suspension bracing and reworked rear wheel body housings. They were most easily identified from the other 370 \"Option 96\" Cobras via their large (and functional) rear-opening bonnet bulge. Allan Moffat's \"Moffat Ford Dealers\" race cars of late 1978 shared the same body paint decoration as the road cars.\n\nFalcon Cobras have become increasingly revered by collectors across Australia and a mint example might be worth upwards of $100,000 ... with Option 97 cars (rarely offered up for sale) likely to fetch a further premium.\n\nAt the 2007 Bathurst 1000, Ford Performance Vehicles unveiled a new limited edition Cobra, celebrating 30 years since Moffat and Bond's 1-2 finish. Like the original, the new FPV GT Cobra sedan has a certified build of just 400 units. In addition, a Cobra Ute was created, of which just 100 were built. Both cars are powered by the 5.4-litre Boss 302 engine; the name is derived from the 302kW (405hp) power output.\n\n", "id": "7735802", "categories": ["Ford Falcon", "Cars of Australia", "Pony cars", "1970s cars", "Rear-wheel-drive vehicles"], "title": "Ford Falcon Cobra"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735817", "text": "Neufchâteau\n\nNeufchâteau may refer to:\n\n\n\n", "id": "7735817", "categories": [], "title": "Neufchâteau"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735818", "text": "New Zealand twenty-cent coin\n\nThe New Zealand twenty-cent coin is the second-lowest-denomination coin of the New Zealand dollar. The 20-cent coin was introduced when the New Zealand dollar was introduced on 10 July 1967, replacing the New Zealand florin coin. Its original reverse of a kiwi was changed in 1990 when the image was moved onto the one-dollar coin. In 2006 its size was reduced and its edge altered to a Spanish flower as part of a revision of New Zealand's coins, which also saw its alloy become nickel-plated steel.\n\nOn 10 July 1967, New Zealand's former pre-decimal pound currency, pegged to the British pound, was changed to a decimal dollar at a rate of two dollars to a pound. Therefore, 20 cents was worth a tenth of a pound. The 20-cent coin replaced the florin coin which had been worth two shillings, or a tenth of a pound. \n\nLike the florin, the new 20-cent coin was made of cupronickel, 28.58 mm in diameter, 11.31 grams in weight, and had 100% edge milling. The 20-cent coin retained the presence of a kiwi on the reverse of the florin, albeit in a different design.\n\nThe original obverses of 20-cent coins depicted Arnold Machin's portrait of Queen Elizabeth II. In 1986 the portrait was changed to the one by Raphael Maklouf, which had been introduced to the coins of the pound sterling in the previous year. Mintings of this coin from 1990 are rare.\n\nIn 1990, the new $1 and $2 coins were released to replace the $1 and $2 notes. As the $1 depicted a kiwi also, the 20-cent's reverse had to be redesigned. The new reverse side featured the well-known Māori carving depicting Pukaki, a chief of the Ngāti Whakaue iwi (tribe) of Te Arawa. In 1999, the portrait of the Queen was changed to a version by Ian Rank-Broadley which had been introduced to the coins of the pound sterling in the previous year. No 20-cent coins were minted between 1991 and 2001.\n\nThe existing 20-cent coins remained in circulation and greatly outnumbered the new design until 2006.\n\nOn 31 July 2006, the new 20-cent coin was released alongside the new 10-cent and 50-cent coins as part of the Reserve Bank's \"Change for the better\" silver coin replacement. The new 20-cent coin had the same reverse as the 1990 to 2006 minted coins and the same obverse as the 1999-onward coins, but the coins were reduced in size. The new 20-cent coins are made of steel, covered in a layer of nickel, copper, then nickel again. The new coins are 21.75 mm in diameter and 4 grams in weight. They have Spanish flower milling around the edge, splitting it into seven sections. For their introduction in 2006, 116 million were minted, with a total value of NZ$23.2 million. The only other year of issue was 2008, where 80 million coins and a total value of NZ$16 million were issued.\n\nThe old 20-cent coins were demonetised on 1 November 2006.\n\nCoin collectors recognise two distinct varieties of the 2014 20-cent coin. These vary in terms of the detail on both the Maori design and Queen's portrait, but are most easily differentiated in terms of the date shown, with Die I having a standard (wide) date setting and Die II a much narrower setting. Both varieties are common in circulation.\n\nAccording to Reserve Bank of New Zealand. Values are in New Zealand dollars. No large 20-cent coins were minted in 1968, 1970, 1991–2001, 2003. Due to the large amount made for the introduction of the small 20-cent, none were minted in 2007 or from 2009 onwards.\n\n\n", "id": "7735818", "categories": ["Twenty-cent coins", "Coins of New Zealand"], "title": "New Zealand twenty-cent coin"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735829", "text": "Silver Tower\n\nSilver Tower may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7735829", "categories": [], "title": "Silver Tower"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735842", "text": "Jack Meets Dennis\n\n\"Jack Meets Dennis\" is the sixth episode of the first season of the American television comedy series \"30 Rock\". It was written by co-executive producer Jack Burditt, and directed by Juan J. Campanella. The episode originally aired on the National Broadcasting Company (NBC) in the United States on November 30, 2006. Guest stars in this episode include Michael Blackson, Katrina Bowden, Greta Cavazzoni, Teddy Coluca, Rachel Dratch, Annette Hunt, Keith Powell, Ali Reza, Lonny Ross, Brian Stack, and Dean Winters.\n\nIn the episode, Liz Lemon (Tina Fey) takes back her sleazy ex-boyfriend Dennis Duffy (Winters), while Jack Donaghy (Alec Baldwin) takes it upon himself to convince her that she is headed for a life of mediocrity. Meanwhile, Tracy Jordan (Tracy Morgan) is enraged when a magazine calls him \"normal\", and at the same time Jenna Maroney (Jane Krakowski) becomes worried about her age when Jack asks her how old she is.\n\nLiz Lemon (Tina Fey) and Dennis Duffy (Dean Winters) have gotten back together after Dennis was the only person who remembered her birthday. Disturbed by Liz's acceptance of mediocrity, her boss, Jack Donaghy (Alec Baldwin), tries to reform her into someone who enjoys the good life. He refers Liz to the fanciest restaurant in the city, Stone. Nevertheless, Liz declines Jack's offer to be her mentor. That night at Stone, Jack and his date walk by Liz and Dennis's table, with Jack very unimpressed by Dennis's manners. The following day, Jack introduces Liz to a former mentee of his, Howard Jorgensen (Brian Stack). At lunch the next day, Liz realizes she is frustrated with her relationship with Dennis, then she storms off to Jack's office to ask for help. Jack motivates Liz to end it with him. Liz comes home to break up with Dennis, only to find him distraught after a loss of his favorite hockey team, the New York Islanders. As a result, Dennis moves in with her.\n\nMeanwhile, Tracy Jordan (Tracy Morgan) is upset after being identified in a magazine as an actor behaving normally, far from the insane persona he is trying to maintain. To re-establish his street cred, Tracy gets a dragon tattoo on his face, but is later identified as made of sharpie. At the same time, Josh Girard (Lonny Ross) is told that he is to receive a special gift from Liz Taylor (Rachel Dratch) as a response to an impression he did of the actress on \"TGS with Tracy Jordan\". Liz Taylor sneaks into the 30 Rock studios and, upset over Josh's impersonation, brutally beats him with a fire extinguisher.\n\nAt the same time, Jack, responding to audience research, starts cleaning out green clothes from the set. He asks Jenna Maroney (Jane Krakowski), one of the stars of \"TGS\", how old she is, and she tells him that she is 29. As a result of this exchange, Jenna gets botox and collagen injections that go terribly wrong. Later, during a sketch rehearsal—involving impersonations of Condoleezza Rice, Laura Bush, and John Kerry—the various mishaps of Tracy, Jenna, and Josh prompt Liz and Pete Hornberger (Scott Adsit) that it would be impossible for the three to perform on the show. The power in the NBC Studios goes out, canceling the show.\n\n\"Jack Meets Dennis\" was written by co-executive producer Jack Burditt and directed by Juan J. Campanella. This was Burditt's first writing credit, and was Campanella's first directed episode. The episode originally aired on November 30, 2006 on NBC as the sixth episode of the show's first season and overall of the series.\n\nActor Dean Winters made his \"30 Rock\" debut in this episode as the character Dennis Duffy, a former ex-boyfriend of Tina Fey's character, Liz Lemon. Comedian actor Brian Stack made his first appearance as Howard Jorgensen, a GE executive and associate of Jack Donaghy's in the episode. Stack would guest star in the episodes \"Succession\" and \"Larry King\". Rachel Dratch, longtime comedy partner and fellow \"Saturday Night Live\" (\"SNL\") alumna of Fey, the show's head writer from 1999 until 2006, was originally cast to portray Jenna Maroney. Dratch played the role in the show's original pilot, but in August 2006, actress Jane Krakowski was announced as Dratch's replacement. Executive producer Lorne Michaels announced that while Dratch would not be playing a series regular, she would appear in various episodes in a different role. In the pilot and \"The C Word\" episodes, Dratch played Greta Johansen, \"The Girlie Show\"<nowiki>'s</nowiki> cat wrangler. In \"The Aftermath\", she played Maria the maid, who is found by Liz in a closet on a yacht. In this episode, Dratch played actress Liz Taylor. This was Dratch's third appearance on the show. Various other cast members of \"SNL\" have appeared on \"30 Rock\". These cast members include: Chris Parnell, Fred Armisen, Kristen Wiig, Will Forte, Jason Sudeikis and Molly Shannon. Fey and Tracy Morgan have both been part of the main cast of \"SNL\".\n\nWhile contemplating how the crew may avoid having to air the episode with the cast in such visibly dire condition, Pete states that the show could be replaced by a live news broadcast of a breaking news event. He then asks \"How's Gerald Ford's health?\" President Gerald Ford would die on December 26th 2006, less than a month after the episode aired. \n\nIn its original American broadcast, \"Jack Meets Dennis\" was watched by an average of 5.97 million households, according to the Nielsen ratings system. It received a 2.1 rating among viewers in the 18–49 demographic. \"Jack Meets Dennis\" finished in 70th place in the weekly ratings for the week of November 27–December 3, 2006. This was an increase from the previous episode, \"Jack-Tor\", which was watched by 5.2 million American viewers.\n\nAlessandra Stanley of \"The New York Times\" said the series worked because it played \"with the absurdities of the television business lightly\". Stanley felt that \"30 Rock\" was at its best when it revolved around the characters, and not the show itself. IGN contributor Robert Canning said that although Tracy and Jenna \"had their moments in two rather weak storylines\", the \"unfunny and distracting 'Where's Waldo?' casting [regarding Rachel Dratch's different characters that she has played on the show]\" disrupted the flow of the episode. He enjoyed the improvement of the show, and said that \"though not every story this week was stellar, you didn't go long without a decent laugh.\" Canning gave \"Jack Meets Dennis\" a 7.5 out of 10 rating. \"TV Guide\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Matt Mitovich said the episode was \"one of the stronger episodes thus far\", citing that \"[e]veryone got funny stuff to do, the Jack-Liz scenes were crackling and teaming with Liz-induced self-humiliation, and we even got a Rachel Dratch cameo (as that angry, angry Liz Taylor).\" Mitovich who had not been a fan of the Jenna character, said that he enjoyed her in this episode. Alan Pergament for \"The Buffalo News\" wrote, \"The extent that stars go to literally and figuratively maintain their images probably sounded funny on paper [in regards to Tracy and Jenna's storylines], but most of it falls flat and illustrates why \"30 Rock\" has been sinking like a rock\". Pergament gave this episode two out of four stars. Amy Amatangelo of the \"Boston Herald\" enjoyed Dean Winters' appearances on \"30 Rock\", noting that he did a \"hilarious turn\" as Dennis. Matt Roush for \"TV Guide\" reported that Alec Baldwin \"stole the show\" in this episode.\n\n", "id": "7735842", "categories": ["2006 American television episodes", "30 Rock (season 1) episodes"], "title": "Jack Meets Dennis"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735849", "text": "Phú Quý\n\nPhú Quý is a small island located about 100 km from Phan Thiết city, Vietnam. Only the rocky, northern half of the island is inhabited, with a population of 20,698 people.\n\nDuring the French Indochina era, the official name of the island was Poulo-Cécir-de-Mer.\n\nPhú Quý district comprises a total of ten islands, with Phú Quý Island being the largest. The island is 16.5 km² in area. The district is 120 km south- east of Phan Thiết, 150 km south of Cam Ranh, 120 km east of Vũng Tàu, 333 km northeast of Con Son and 540 km west of the Spratly Islands. The highest point on the island is Mount Cam Dat, at 106 m. The north of the island is rocky, while the south consists mostly of sand.\n\nPhú Quý island has three districts:\n\nPhú Quý is calling for domestic and foreign investors to invest in the island. Ideally to develop infrastructure, especially airports and hotels to serve tourists.\n\nTransport routes connecting the mainland and Phú Quý island are limited. During calm seas, the journey by ferry can take up to six hours, limiting tourism. However, in mid-2010, the cooperative shipping company Fortune put into operation a mid-speed ferry, shortening travel time to Phú Quý island to approximately 2.5-3h.\n\n2017 - the mid-speed ferry was stopped in 2015 and after a year was replaced with a ferry that takes 4 hours running alongside the 6 hour ferry. In 2018 the mid-speed ferry was reinstated and now travel to the island takes 2.5 hours in favourable conditions.\n\n\n", "id": "7735849", "categories": ["Fishing communities in Vietnam", "Islands of Vietnam", "Districts of Binh Thuan Province"], "title": "Phú Quý"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735873", "text": "Trichocyst\n\nA trichocyst is an organelle found in certain ciliates and dinoflagellates.\n\nA trichocyst can be found in tetrahymena and along cila pathways of several metabolic systems.\nIt is also a structure in the cortex of certain ciliate and flagellate protozoans consisting of a cavity and long, thin threads that can be ejected in response to certain stimuli. Trichocysts may be widely distributed over an organism or restricted to certain areas (e.g., tentacles, papillae, around the mouth). There are several types. Mucoid trichocysts are elongated inclusions that may be ejected as visible bodies after artificial stimulation. Filamentous trichocysts in Paramecium and other ciliates are discharged as filaments composed of a cross-striated shaft and a tip. Toxicysts (in Dileptus and certain other carnivorous protozoans) tend to be localized around the mouth. When discharged, a toxicyst expels a long, nonstriated filament with a rodlike tip, which paralyzes or kills other microorganisms; this filament is used to capture food and, presumably, in defense.\n\nThe functional significance of other trichocysts is uncertain, although those of Paramecium apparently can be extruded for anchorage during feeding.\n\n", "id": "7735873", "categories": ["Ciliate biology", "Organelles", "Dinoflagellate biology"], "title": "Trichocyst"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735893", "text": "Upon Promeathean Shores (Unscriptured Waters)\n\nUpon Promeathean Shores (Unscriptured Waters) is an EP and the first studio release by the British symphonic black metal band Hecate Enthroned. It was released by Blackend Records on 7 July, 1995. This is essentially their \"An Ode for a Haunted Wood\" demo* reworked and released as the first album under their record label.\n\nStylistically this found the band in a more \"true\" black metal sound, with squashed production, growled vocals, raging tempos, blast beats and symphonic arrangements. Accusations of the band being a \"Cradle of Filth rip-off\" began to manifest as the band's name got bigger.\n\nThe album was remastered and re-released in 1998 by Blackend with two bonus tracks and a different cover art.\n\nA music video was made for the track \"An Ode for a Haunted Wood\".\n\nA picture of the famous ruins of the Whitby Abbey was used as the cover.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7735893", "categories": ["Hecate Enthroned albums", "Debut EPs", "Demo albums", "1995 EPs"], "title": "Upon Promeathean Shores (Unscriptured Waters)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735923", "text": "Attributable risk\n\nIn epidemiology, attributable risk or excess risk is a term synonymous to risk difference, that has also been used to denote attributable fraction among the exposed and attributable fraction for the population.\n\n", "id": "7735923", "categories": [], "title": "Attributable risk"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735934", "text": "Henry Caselli Richards\n\nHenry Caselli (H.C) Richards (16 December 1884 – 13 June 1947), was an Australian professor of geology, academic and teacher.\nRichards was born in Melton, Victoria and was educated at Box Hill Grammar, South Melbourne College and the University of Melbourne, obtaining a B.Sc. in 1906, M.Sc. in 1909 and D.Sc. in 1915.\n\nRichards worked on the geological survey of Victoria in 1906–07 while still an undergraduate student. He went to work for De Bavay and Company in Broken Hill, and then took up a position as a scholar and demonstrator at the University of Melbourne. In 1910, Richards took up a position teaching in the Chemistry, Geology and Mining Department of the Central Technical College (CTC), in the Government House Domain of George Street, Brisbane (forerunner of Queensland Institute of Technology). He successfully applied to be a lecturer at the newly formed University of Queensland in 1911. Both the CTC and University of Queensland geology classes would share some of the same buildings in George Street, Brisbane, until the University moved to the St Lucia campus in 1950.\n\nRichards was interested in the building stones of both Victoria, and later his adopted home of Queensland. He published two papers on the building stones of Brisbane, especially Helidon sandstone and was an advisor on the plans for the building work of the University of Queensland in 1930 to 1931 and again in 1938, among other projects.\n\nRichards would be a dynamic force for the Geology Department, the Faculty of Science and the University during its early years. In 1919, Richards became the University's first geology professor. He was Dean of the Faculty of Science, President of the Board of Faculties, President of the Staff Association, on the University Senate, Chairman of Public Exams Committee, Music Advisory Board and many others. In 1946, Richards was Professor of Geology, Deputy Chancellor of the university, Chairman of Trustees of the National Art Gallery, President of the Art Galleries and Museums Association of Australia and New Zealand, Chairman of the Great Barrier Reef Committee and many others. He led geology camps to Spicer's Gap and the Great Barrier Reef. His wife would be a chaperone for the female students, on many camps and dances held at the fledgling University. Dorothy Hill would become one of the students of the Geology Department in 1925, and found him to be a great mentor of the Science students. He encouraged her to apply for a Foundation Travelling Scholarship to the University of Cambridge in 1929, which she won.\n\nRichards also began the purchase of research materials to build a library at the University.\n\nIn 1922 he founded, along with Queensland Governor Sir Matthew Nathan, the Great Barrier Reef Committee. This led to two deep boring projects through the Reef (in 1927 and 1937) to prove one of Charles Darwin's theories and to look for ways to exploit the economic potential of the Reef. The Committee's public relations ventures, in order to bring in more money for their research programmes, would also lead to a number of biological expeditions to the Reef, including the year long Low Isles Great Barrier Reef Expedition of 1928. This expedition brought in many biologists and geographers from around the world, and led to publication of research at the British Natural History Museum. The Committee's work would eventually lead to the establishment of the Heron Island Research Station, Australia's first coral reef marine biology research station.\n\nIn 1929, Richards took leave from the University and was a member of the Royal Commission into Mining in Queensland. This enabled him to travel to the International Geology Conference in South Africa, as a representative of the Australian and Queensland governments. Being equally interested in art as he was in geology, Richards was a member of the Survey of Australian and New Zealand Museums and Art Galleries for the Carnegie Corporation of New York in 1932–33, and received a Carnegie Institute medal for his services to this survey in 1936. This enabled him to take an extended trip overseas to visit the Carnegie Institute in Washington, D.C. and the Seismology Laboratory in Pasadena, California (Caltech). This visit led to a Commonwealth Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) grant to obtain a second Milne-Shaw Seismograph for the University, following the 1935 earthquake in Gayndah, Queensland. The University established their first Seismology station in 1937, thanks to the work of Richards and his colleague W.H. Bryan. Richards would be appointed to the Board of Trustees of the Queensland Art Gallery in 1938, and become President of the same in 1945 until his death in 1947.\n\nRichards worked for the Queensland Department of Mines and was a member of Artesian Water Committee, in 1938, as well as being the President of the Royal Society of Queensland. He was awarded the Clarke Medal of the Royal Society of New South Wales in 1938, the fourth Queensland recipient to be so awarded.\n\nDuring World War Two, Richards assisted the war effort by helping to place scientists in appropriate positions in either the armed or civilian services. In 1941, he and Dorothy Hill worked on the project to analyse two bores of the Great Barrier Reef.\n\nRichards died in 1947 in Brisbane, survived by his wife Grace and two children. He was celebrated for his energy and industriousness, popularity with students and ability to foster cooperation between the University and the Queensland government.\n\nFollowing his death, the new Geology Department building, which he had toiled over to establish at the new campus of St Lucia, was named in his honour. It fronts the Great Court. W.H. Bryan would succeed him in the position of Professor. The H.C. Richards Memorial Prize was established in geology, in acknowledgement of his contribution to the University of Queensland. It was an annual prize in art from 1954–1972. A bas-relief was sculpted of him in the entrance stones of the Geology building, and an ammonite fossil, carved into the entrance to the building, was similarly named for him.\n\nRichards, H. C. (1916). The volcanic rocks of south-eastern Queensland. \"Proceedings of the Royal Society of Queensland\", 27: 105–124.\n\nRichards, H. C. (1918). The building stones of Queensland. \"Proceedings of the Royal Society of Queensland\", 30: 97–157.\n\nRichards, H.C. (1918). The volcanic rocks of Springsure, Central Queensland. \"Proceedings of the Royal Society of Queensland\", 30: 179–198.\n\nRichards, H. C. (1920). Notes on the vent structures and jointing of the municipal quarry, Toowooomba, Queensland. \"Queensland naturalist\", 2: 94–96.\n\nRichards, H. C. (1922). Anorthoclase Basalt from Mapleton, Blackall Range, south-eastern Queensland. \"Proceedings of the Royal Society of Queensland\", 34: 161–167.\n\nRichards, H. C. and Bryan, W. H. (1924). The geology of the Silverwood-Lucky Valley area. \"Proceedings of the Royal Society of Queensland\", 36: 44–108.\n\nRichards, H. C. and Bryan, W. H. (1926). Note on the Devonian rocks of central and southern Queensland. \"Reports of the Australian Australasian Association for the Advancement of Science\", 18: 286–290.\n\nRichards, H. C. and Bryan, W. H. (1927). Volcanic mud balls from the Brisbane Tuff. \"Proceedings of the Royal Society of Queensland\", 39: 54–60.\n\nRichards, H. C. and Bryan, W. H. (1932). Algal Limestones from Gigoomgan, Queensland. \"Geological magazine\", 69: 289–301.\n\nRichards, H. C. and Bryan, W. H. (1934). The problem of the Brisbane Tuff. \"Proceedings of the Royal Society of Queensland\", 45: 50–62.\n\nRichards, H. C. and Hill, D. (1942). Great Barrier Reef bores, 1926 and 1937-descriptions, analyses, interpretations. \"Report of the Great Barrier Reef Committee\", 5: 1–111.\n\n", "id": "7735934", "categories": ["1947 deaths", "1884 births", "Australian geologists"], "title": "Henry Caselli Richards"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735956", "text": "Lady Kasuga\n\nHer mother's father was Inaba Yoshimichi. Married to Inaba Masanari, she had three sons, including Inaba Masakatsu, and an adopted son, Hotta Masatoshi.\n\nShe also established the \"Ōoku,\" the women's quarters, at Edo Castle. In 1607 after Iemitsu became shōgun, she became Jōrō Otoshiyori (上臈御年寄) or the senior ladyship, recommended by the first \"Midaidokoro\", Oeyo. Jōrō Otoshiyori influence was equivalent to a Rōjū in Edo Castle.\n\nIn 1629, Ofuku traveled to the capital, where she had an audience with the emperor at the Imperial Court in Kyoto. She was promoted to the extraordinarily high Court rank of second class; and after this time, she was called Kasuga-no-Tsubone or Lady Kasuga.\n\nHer grave is in Rinshō-in, a temple in Bunkyō, Tokyo; the temple possesses a portrait of Kasuga by Kanō Tan'yū. The Kasuga neighborhood of Bunkyō takes its name from her. Another grave is in Odawara, Kanagawa Prefecture.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7735956", "categories": ["People of Sengoku-period Japan", "1643 deaths", "Inaba clan", "17th-century women politicians", "16th-century women politicians", "16th-century Japanese women", "Samurai", "17th-century Japanese women", "Saitō clan", "Wet nurses", "1579 births"], "title": "Lady Kasuga"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735978", "text": "Timothy Taylor (economist)\n\nTimothy Taylor (born 1960) is an American economist. He is managing editor of the \"Journal of Economic Perspectives\", a quarterly academic journal produced at Macalester College and published by the American Economic Association.\n\nTaylor received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Haverford College and a master's degree in economics from Stanford University. At Stanford, he was winner of the award for excellent teaching in a large class (more than 30 students) given by the Associated Students of Stanford University. At Minnesota, he was named a Distinguished Lecturer by the Department of Economics and voted Teacher of the Year by the master's degree students at the Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs.\n\nTaylor has been a guest speaker for groups of teachers of high school economics, visiting diplomats from eastern Europe, talk-radio shows, and community groups. From 1989 to 1997, Professor Taylor wrote an economics opinion column for the San Jose Mercury-News. He has published multiple lectures on economics through The Teaching Company. With Rudolph Penner and Isabel Sawhill, he is co-author of \"Updating America's Social Contract\" (2000), whose first chapter provided an early radical centrist perspective, \"An Agenda for the Radical Middle\".\n\nTaylor is also the author of \"The Instant Economist: Everything You Need to Know About How the Economy Works,\" published by the Penguin Group in 2012. The fourth edition of Taylor's \"Principles of Economics\" textbook was published by Textbook Media in 2017.\n\n", "id": "7735978", "categories": ["Radical centrist writers", "1960 births", "21st-century American economists", "Haverford College alumni", "Stanford University alumni", "Living people", "American magazine editors"], "title": "Timothy Taylor (economist)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735994", "text": "Scott Beach\n\nScott Beach (January 13, 1931 – February 13, 1996) was an American actor, writer, and disc jockey, best known for his performance in the 1960s-themed 1973 film \"American Graffiti\".\n\nBorn Alvin Scott Beach, he appeared in numerous motion pictures, most notably as a German scientist patterned after Wernher von Braun in \"The Right Stuff\". His deep voice was often heard in films. He once said that director George Lucas liked his voice and often used him in his films, beginning with \"THX 1138\". Beach also appeared as Mr. Gordon in \"American Graffiti\" and provided an uncredited stormtrooper voice in Star Wars.\n\nBeach was an early and beloved performer at the original Renaissance Pleasure Faires in Agoura and Novato, California, where for many years he portrayed the Lord Mayor of the Shire and was a mentor and an inspiration to many aspiring actors. Along with his acting career, Beach was a natural for radio and was on the staff of KSFO in San Francisco, California. During a radio broadcast on January 28, 1973, he reported that the Agreement on Ending the War and Restoring Peace in Vietnam had been signed on the previous day in Paris, France. That agreement, also known as the Paris Peace Accords, ended direct U.S. military involvement in the Vietnam War. Beach concluded his report about the peace agreement by stating, \"\"I fear that the last U.S. soldier to die in Vietnam is still alive.\"\" He was correct; the last American death in Vietnam was not until April 29, 1975. See McMahon and Judge. \n\nBeach twice served as the narrator in performances of Arthur Honegger's \"King David\" with the Masterworks Chorale of San Mateo, California. He also narrated other performances of the oratorio in both the original French and the English translation used by the Masterworks Chorale. He was the host of the San Francisco Opera broadcasts over KKHI during the early 1970s. Beach also provided the voice of the comic strip cat \"Garfield\" in the character's first television appearance; he was later replaced in that role by Lorenzo Music. \n\n", "id": "7735994", "categories": ["American male voice actors", "Classical music radio presenters", "Writers from Portland, Oregon", "American male film actors", "1996 deaths", "Male actors from Portland, Oregon", "1931 births", "Disease-related deaths in California"], "title": "Scott Beach"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736010", "text": "Milan Barjaktarevic\n\nMilan Barjaktarevic (; born 12 June 1987 in Stockholm) is a Swedish footballer of Serbian extraction, who played for Kalmar FF as a goalkeeper.\n\nHe was previously attached to the youth sections of both Hammarby and Heart of Midlothian, but did not make a first team appearance for either. He joined Kalmar in December 2006.\n\n", "id": "7736010", "categories": ["Swedish expatriate footballers", "IK Sirius Fotboll players", "Association football goalkeepers", "Serb diaspora sportspeople", "Expatriate footballers in Scotland", "Living people", "Heart of Midlothian F.C. players", "Swedish expatriate sportspeople in the United Kingdom", "Sportspeople from Stockholm", "Swedish people of Serbian descent", "Hammarby Fotboll players", "Kalmar FF players", "Swedish footballers", "1987 births"], "title": "Milan Barjaktarevic"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736019", "text": "Hemlock Falls\n\nHemlock Falls is a waterfall located in Rabun County, Georgia. It is located in the Tallulah Ranger District of the Chattahoochee National Forest on Moccasin Creek. The Hemlock Trail is about one mile long, beginning at Moccasin Creek State Park and following an old railroad bed.\n\n", "id": "7736019", "categories": ["Protected areas of Rabun County, Georgia", "Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest", "Waterfalls of Georgia (U.S. state)", "Waterfalls of Rabun County, Georgia"], "title": "Hemlock Falls"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736025", "text": "Fernando Tarrida del Mármol\n\nFernando Tarrida del Mármol (August 2, 1861 – 1915) was a mathematics professor born in Cuba and raised in Catalonia best known for proposing \"anarchism without adjectives\", the idea that anarchists should set aside their debates over the most preferable economic systems and acknowledge their commonality in ultimate aims.\n\nFernando Tarrida del Mármol was born in 1861 in Cuba. His family emigrated to Spain during the 1868 Glorious Revolution, and his father ran a shoe and boot manufacturing plant in the Catalonian town of Sitges. Tarrida received a degree in mathematics from the Pau lycée, in southern France. His classmate and later French prime minister Louis Barthou converted him to republicanism. Tarrida moved to the University of Barcelona for a degree in civil engineering, and became a professor of mathematics at Barcelona's Polytechnic.\n\nDespite his family's wealth, he identified more closely with Barcelona's working class and visited their clubs to discuss politics and quality of life. The workers appreciated his charisma and sincerity. By the mid 1880s—Tarrida's twenties—he was a collectivist anarchist who identified with the federalism of Pierre-Joseph Proudhon and Francesc Pi i Margall. Tarrida viewed anarchism beyond political philosophy as an all-encompassing philosophy, or the process by which humanity integrates and develops. He often referred to anarchism in mathematical formula as both the language to clarify his thoughts and to scientifically prove the philosophy's tenets. Tarrida gave public lectures and wrote about anarchism for libertarian journals, and developed a friendship with the Spanish anarchist Anselmo Lorenzo. Barcelona workers chose Tarrida as their delegate to the International Socialist Congress in Paris, 1889.\n\nTarrida first proposed the idea of \"anarchism without adjectives\" during a public speech in November 1889. Anarchists often debated their ideal economic conditions, and \"anarchism without adjectives\" appealed anarchists to abandon these divisions, accommodate other factions, follow the basic principles of anarchism, and instead work together towards their unified cause. He argued that anarchists share opposition to dogma and should therefore let each other freely choose their choice of economic system. Put another way, anarchism was \"the axiom\" and their economic model was \"secondary\". Tarrida gave this speech at the Bellas Artes palace as a representative of an affinity group in commemoration of the Chicago Haymarket affair two years prior. Tarrida, himself, did not publicly engage in the factionism between collectivism and communism, though his earlier works adopted a collectivist position. In 1890, the French anarcho-communist journal \"Le Révolté\" charged the Spanish anarchist movement as overly collectivist and prone to authoritarian organization. The journal challenged Tarrida to defend his position, and in an open letter, he affirmed their differences in tactics but agreement in ultimate goal. He defended the Spanish anarchist model of forming alliances between groups, and criticized the French anarchists' puritanical rigidity as ineffectual against the centralized bourgeoisie in the absence of coordinated action. Tarrida also noted the difference between the development of Spanish and French anarchism. While the French called the Spanish workers' associations authoritarian, Tarrida wrote that these organizations were responsible for building the anarchist tradition in Spain and contributed to their workers' natural rejection of communist worker models.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7736025", "categories": ["Anarchists without adjectives", "1915 deaths", "Cuban people of Catalan descent", "1861 births", "People from Havana", "Cuban anarchists"], "title": "Fernando Tarrida del Mármol"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736041", "text": "San Joaquin and Sierra Nevada Railroad\n\nThe San Joaquin and Sierra Nevada Railroad (or \"Rail Road\") was originally built as a narrow gauge that ran from Bracks Landing (10.6 miles west of Woodbridge on the San Joaquin Delta, on the Brack Tract on the east side of South Mokelumne River, between Hog Slough and Terminous) to Woodbridge and Lodi and then east to the Sierra Nevada foothill town of Valley Springs. The railroad was incorporated on March 28, 1882 and construction was completed on April 15, 1885. The railroad was built as a common carrier with copper mining being its primary traffic. The track was built using 35/40 lb steel rails.\n\nOn March 15, 1888 the San Joaquin & Sierra Nevada was consolidated into Southern Pacific Railroad's (SP) subsidiary, the Northern Railway Company. In 1897, the Northern Railway abandoned the track between Woodbridge and Brack's Landing and converted the rest of the line to . The following year, the Northern Railway was consolidated into the Southern Pacific.\n\nIn 1925/1926, Southern Pacific extended the branch line 8 miles east into the Sierras to its ending point known as Kentucky House (or Kentucky Home). The last 4 miles of the branch at Kentucky House were sold to the Calaveras Cement Company on April 28, 1929. The Calaveras Cement Company closed the plant at Kentucky House in 1984. Prior to 1984, the SP was operating three freight trains per week between Lodi and Kentucky House. The branch was listed in Southern Pacific timetables as the Kentucky House Branch and interchanged at Lodi with the SP mainline that ran from Stockton - Sacramento. After the cement plant closed, the branch was used to store railroad freight cars. Eventually the tracks were removed.\n\nThe line from Woodbridge to Lodi is known as the Woodbridge Branch and terminates near the General Mills plant in Lodi.\n\nNote: Southern Pacific (MP) were track mile distance from Oakland, California.\n\n\n", "id": "7736041", "categories": ["Narrow gauge railroads in California", "History of the San Joaquin Valley", "Railway companies established in 1882", "Railway companies disestablished in 1888", "Defunct California railroads", "Predecessors of the Southern Pacific Transportation Company"], "title": "San Joaquin and Sierra Nevada Railroad"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736052", "text": "Walter Lincoln Hawkins\n\nWalter Lincoln Hawkins (1911–1992) was an African-American chemist and engineer widely regarded as a pioneer of polymer chemistry. For thirty-four years he worked at Bell Laboratories, where he was instrumental in designing a long-lasting plastic to sheath telephone cables, so assisting the introduction of telephone services to thousands of Americans. Hawkins was the first African-American to become a member of the National Academy of Engineering, and in 1992 he was awarded the National Medal of Technology by the U.S. president, George H. W. Bush.\n\nWalter Hawkins was born on March 21, 1911, in Washington, D.C. His father was a lawyer for the U.S. Census Bureau and his mother was a science teacher in the District of Columbia school system.\nWhen he was young, Hawkins was fascinated with how things worked. For example, it was not unusual for him to take apart one toy and reassemble it to make another one. He also made spring-driven toy boats to sail in the reflecting pool in front of the Lincoln Memorial. Hawkins and a fellow eleven-year-old once tried to build a perpetual motion machine, not realizing that it was an impossible task. He built a working radio so he could listen to Washington Senators baseball games.\n\nWhile at Washington's Dunbar High School, Hawkins noticed that his physics teacher drove an expensive new car every year. The teacher, who had invented a self-starter mechanism to replace automobile hand cranks, received a new car each year as partial payment from the company which had bought the mechanism. Hawkins was tremendously excited to discover that a person could make a living through mechanical tinkering.\n\nAfter graduating from high school he went to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York. In 1932 he graduated with a chemical engineering degree. Unable to find a job during the Great Depression, he enrolled in graduate school at Howard University, where in 1934, he earned a master's degree in chemistry. Professor Howard Blatt, Hawkins’ friend and mentor at Howard, informed him of a special scholarship at McGill University in Montreal, Canada. Hawkins enrolled at McGill, earned his Doctorate in Chemistry, and left to continue his research at Columbia University when he received a fellowship from the National Research Council.\n\nIn 1942, Hawkins became the first African-American to join the technical staff of Bell Laboratories. By controlling much of the Pacific theater in World War II, the Japanese had cut off much of America's rubber supply from Southeast Asia. Hawkins contributed to the development of a rubber substitute made from petroleum stock.\n\nAfter the war, Hawkins began work on an important project, a new and improved insulation for telephone cables. Underground and underwater cables, which were laid over incredibly long distances, were covered with fiber wrapped in heavy, expensive lead sheathing. Scientists had known that new, lightweight plastics would be a good alternative, but common plastics did not last long outdoors. Hawkins and Vincent Lanza in 1956 invented a plastic coating that could withstand extreme fluctuations in temperature, last up to seventy years, and was less expensive than lead. Telephone lines were subsequently installed in rural areas, bringing affordable phone service to thousands of people.\n\nHawkins, who worked at Bell Labs for thirty-four years, became assistant director of their chemical research lab in 1974. His work with polymers, primarily plastics, focused on the development of new products and recycling. The extremely durable nature of plastic becomes a huge problem when it must be discarded. Hawkins became an expert, not only in making plastics last longer, but in recycling these seemingly indestructible products.\n\nUpon his retirement from Bell Labs in 1976, Hawkins began teaching and encouraging college students to study science and engineering. In 1981, he became the first chairman of Project SEED (Support of the Educationally & Economically Disadvantaged), an American Chemical Society program designed to promote science careers for minority students. He also helped to set up a program at Bell Labs and AT&T to recruit African-American scientists and engineers.\n\nOn August 20, 1992, Hawkins died in San Marcos, California due to heart failure. He was 81.\n\nHawkins was frequently honored as a polymer chemistry pioneer. The first African-American to become a member of the National Academy of Engineering, Hawkins also won the International Medal of the Society of Plastics. In a 1992 White House ceremony, he received the National Medal of Technology from President George H. W. Bush.\n\n", "id": "7736052", "categories": ["African-American engineers", "Columbia University alumni", "Columbia University staff", "Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute alumni", "National Medal of Technology recipients", "20th-century American chemists", "1992 deaths", "1911 births", "African-American scientists"], "title": "Walter Lincoln Hawkins"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736080", "text": "Shaky Isles\n\nThe Shaky Isles or Shaky Islands is a nickname for New Zealand. At one time this nickname was used in New Zealand itself, though its usage there is now seen as dated; it is still fairly widely used in Australia.\n\nThe name derived from New Zealand's frequent seismic activity. The islands lie on the margin of two colliding tectonic plates, the Pacific and Indo-Australian Plates. Earthquakes are common, particularly in the southwest of the South Island and in the central North Island, and the North Island's scenery is marked by several active and dormant volcanic cones.\n\nThe phrase is at worst only very mildly derogatory, and is usually only used humorously with no pejorative connotations.\n\nThe country records more than 14,000 earthquakes a year – but only about 150 are usually felt. Schoolchildren in the country regularly undertake earthquake drills.\n\n4 September 2010: This 7.1 magnitude earthquake struck what was then New Zealand's second largest city, Christchurch. damaging many buildings, but with no loss of life. This was mainly due to New Zealand's building standards, the epicentre being approximately from the city, and the quake hitting at 4:35am.\n\n22 February 2011: A 6.3 magnitude earthquake caused far more damage in Christchurch, including 181 deaths. This quake struck at about lunchtime and was centred closer at Lyttelton, and shallower than the prior quake, explaining the resultant destruction.\n\n21 July 2013: A 6.5 magnitude earthquake struct in the Cook Strait near the town of Seddon and caused moderate damage in New Zealand's capital, Wellington. It was preceded by a strong M5.7 foreshock.\n\n16 August 2013: A 6.6 magnitude earthquake struck near Lake Grassmere in South Islands Marlborough Region. It quake added substantial more damage to the town of Seddon after the 6.5 Seddon earthquake one month prior and both are considered to be an earthquake doublet.\n\n2 September 2016: A 7.1 magnitude earthquake struck near Te Araroa off East Cape, North Island. Damage was localised to towns nearer to the epicentre of the earthquake, with 255 claims for damage compensation being lodged.\n\n14 November 2016: A 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck near Culverden and Kaikoura in the North Canterbury area of the South Island. Two deaths have been reported. Moderate to significant damage occurred along the East Coast of central New Zealand, from Christchurch all the way through Wellington. The seabed near Kaikoura was raised 2.5 meters in some places.\n\nThe term \"Shaky Isles\" has been used multiple times in New Zealand popular culture as a reference to the country. Among the earliest uses of the term was by the Maori Troubadours in 1960, with their song \"Shakin' in the Shaky Isles.\" This was followed up in later decades by Mike Harding in 1989 and Dave Dobbyn in 1991. A New Zealand theatre company headed by Emma Deakin in London is called \"The Shaky Isles Theatre Company\". \"Shaky Isles\" is also the name of a cafe chain in Auckland.\n\n\n", "id": "7736080", "categories": ["Earthquakes in New Zealand"], "title": "Shaky Isles"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736116", "text": "Sheoran\n\nSheoran is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n", "id": "7736116", "categories": [], "title": "Sheoran"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736124", "text": "Kyogle Council\n\nKyogle Council is a local government area in the Northern Rivers region of New South Wales, Australia.\n\nThe council services an area of and is located adjacent to the Summerland Way and the North Coast railway line, within two hours drive from Brisbane and one hour from the Queensland Gold Coast and the NSW coastal communities of , and Tweed Heads. Kyogle Council comprises a large and diverse region with natural attributes, including the Border Ranges National Park and other world heritage listed areas, and cultural features. \n\nThe Mayor of Kyogle Council is Clr. Danielle Mulholland, an independent politician.\n\nThe Kyogle Council has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nAt the 2011 census, there were people in the Kyogle local government area, of these 50.3 per cent were male and 49.7 per cent were female. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people made up 5.3 per cent of the population, which was significantly higher than the national and state averages of 2.5 per cent. The median age of people in the Kyogle Council area was 45 years, which was significantly higher than the national median of 37 years. Children aged 0 – 14 years made up 19.1 per cent of the population and people aged 65 years and over made up 17.3 per cent of the population. Of people in the area aged 15 years and over, 46.6 per cent were married and 15.1 per cent were either divorced or separated.\n\nPopulation growth in the Kyogle Council area between the and the was 1.06 per cent; and in the subsequent five years to the 2011 census, the population declined 0.3 per cent. When compared with total population growth of Australia for the same periods, being 5.78 per cent and 8.32 per cent respectively, population growth in the Kyogle local government area was significantly lower than the national average. The median weekly income for residents within the Kyogle Council area was significantly lower than the national average.\n\nAt the 2011 census, the proportion of residents in the Kyogle local government area who stated their ancestry as Australian or Anglo-Saxon exceeded 85 per cent of all residents (national average was 65.2 per cent). In excess of 23 per cent of all residents in the Kyogle Council at the 2011 census nominated no religious affiliation, compared to the national average of 22.3 per cent. Meanwhile, affiliation with Christianity was 55 per cent, which was slightly higher than the national average of 50.2 per cent. As at the census date, compared to the national average, households in the Kyogle local government area had a significantly lower than average proportion (3.5 per cent) where two or more languages are spoken (national average was 20.4 per cent); and a significantly higher proportion (92.9 per cent) where English only was spoken at home (national average was 76.8 per cent).\n\nKyogle Council is composed of nine Councillors elected proportionally as three separate wards, each electing three Councillors. The Councillors are elected for a fixed four-year term of office. The Mayor is elected by the Councillors at the first meeting of the Council. The most recent election was held on 10 September 2016, and the makeup of the Council is as follows:\n\nThe current Council, elected in 2012, in order of election by ward, is:\n", "id": "7736124", "categories": ["Local government areas of New South Wales"], "title": "Kyogle Council"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736128", "text": "Bangsar Park\n\nBangsar Park was the first residential area to be developed within the area which is now known as Bangsar in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. It is a much sought-after residential and commercial address in the Klang Valley.\nIt lies about four kilometres southwest of the city centre and is a ten minutes drive by car from the city centre. It is given the postcode of 59000.\n\nThe Dewan Bandaraya Kuala Lumpur is the local governing authority. It is represented by the Bangsar Park Residents' Association. Bangsar Park is also part of the Lembah Pantai constituency and its Member of Parliament is Nurul Izzah Anwar, for the past 2 terms.\n\nBangsar was initially a rubber estate. One suggestion is that it derives its name from Bunge, a Belgian, and Grisar, a Frenchman, said to be the founders of a European company that ran the estate, Bunge-Grisar. The name of this estate was soon localised to Bungsar, and finally Bangsar. It was the nearest to Kuala Lumpur.\n\nIt was later developed into a residential area. Bangsar Park was the first area to be developed. Apparently it was the first planned housing estates in Kuala Lumpur. The first houses were built in 1969. Development in Bangsar started once Socfin estates sold the land to private developers.\n\nThough generally Bangsar is a hilly suburb, Bangsar Park lies in the southern part of the area which of flat terrain.\n\nJalan Maarof (Ma'arof) is Bangsar's main thoroughfare. It also divides Bangsar into two main parts. On the east of this road lies Taman SA, Bangsar Park, Bukit Bangsar, Bangsar Utama and one-half of Bukit Bandaraya (postcode 59000). The other neighbourhoods (and other half of Bukit Bandaraya) lie on the west (postcode 59100).\n\nThe Mobil service station along Jalan Maarof was sometimes used to identify the side of the road Bangsar Park is on, considering most of Bangsar was on the other side. This Mobil station was recently demolished.\nEast of Bangsar Park lies Bukit Persekutuan, a low density neighbourhood developed in the colonial days and Bukit Damansara. Most of the vegetation from the forest has not been cleared, thus it would appears as if the eastern neighbourhoods of Bangsar were actually surrounded by a jungle.\n\nA few monsoon drains were constructed when Bangsar was developed. They have since been covered up, although they remain operational.\n\nBangsar Park is a popular residential area among both Malaysians and expatriates. It is a melting pot today with a good balance of different races living here. However, it was never always that way. The initial residents of Bangsar Park were mainly Ceylonese from Brickfields, who were mostly government clerks and looking for a new, clean neighbourhood to move into.\n\nBangsar Park does not have any commercial area. It is a purely residential area. The closest thing to a commercial area is the row of shophouses housing sundry shops, restaurants and a laundry shop.\n\nHowever, residents of Bangsar Park do not find this a problem. They love the peace and quiet and the homely feel of the area as a result of it being a purely residential area. Besides, the commercial areas of Bangsar Baru, Lucky Gardens and Bangsar Utama are all within walking distance.\n\nBangsar Park has also a large population of Gujaratis. The Gujarati Association WP & Selangor building and Jain Mandir is also located at Lorong Maarof.\n\nSekolah Menengah Kebangsaan Bangsar is a secondary school located within Bangsar Park. However, most parents prefer sending their children to Sekolah Menengah Kebangsaan Bukit Bandaraya, which is just three minutes drive away, as it has a better academic record.\n\nPusat Kesihatan Umum Bangsar is a primary healthcare centre which is just walking distance from Bangsar Park. Universiti Malaya Medical Centre (UMMC), a public hospital is situated within five minutes drive, although access is through Petaling Jaya.\n\nUnlike the rest of Bangsar, Bangsar Park does not suffer from any traffic congestion at any time of the day.\n\nBangsar Park is easily accessible from any part of Kuala Lumpur. It is just a ten-minute drive from the Kuala Lumpur city centre. It is also connected to the city of Petaling Jaya via the Federal Highway.\nThe Bangsar LRT station (on Rapid KL's Kelana Jaya Line )is located along Jalan Bangsar. Abdullah Hukum, Kerinchi and Universiti LRT stations are also located nearby.\n\nBangsar is a five-minute drive from KL Sentral, a major transportation hub in neighbouring Brickfields.\n\nBangsar Park is also easily accessible using any of Rapid KL's bus services.\n\n\n", "id": "7736128", "categories": ["Suburbs in Kuala Lumpur"], "title": "Bangsar Park"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736138", "text": "Marian Catholic College\n\nMarian Catholic College is an independent Roman Catholic co-educational secondary day school, located in in the Riverina region of New South Wales, Australia. Administered by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Wagga Wagga, the College caters for students from Year 7 to Year 12. It is called \"Marian\" in honour of Mary, the Mother of God, patron of the Sisters of Mercy and Marist Brothers who founded the college.\n\nYears Seven and Eight are part of the Middle School years, Years Nine and Ten the School Certificate years and Years Eleven and Twelve the Senior School when Preliminary and Higher School Certificate Courses are completed. Students with satisfactory attendance and progress receive their School Certificate at the end of Year Ten and their HSC at the end of Year Twelve.\n\nThe school features 2 fully renovated kitchens for food technology and hospitality, a large enclosed hall used for indoor sports and gatherings and two computer rooms, and further computers in the school's library and classrooms. The school's outdoor sporting facilities include an oval, a netball court, a basketball court (within the same enclosure), two cricket nets and a cricket pitch.\n\nMarian Catholic College's school band \"PowerSauce\" was created in late 2008. They formed to participate in the Ashton Music's \"Best School Band\" competition. The competition ran until 12 June and PowerSauce finished 3rd out of 22. They were placed in the top 5 for Sony Music to overlook, where the final winner would be judged. On 17 June 2009, it was announced that PowerSauce had won the nationwide competition, earning them a prize of Ashton Music equipment and a performance by Australian musician Jessica Mauboy. Since then, the band has split, due to work and university commitments.\n\nMarian Catholic College hosts annual swimming, cross country and athletics carnivals. The swimming carnival is held early in term 1 at the Griffith Aquatic Centre and the athletics carnival is held later in the term at the West End Oval. The school's students are divided into four houses for these carnivals and points are given to each house based on student participation and placement in each event. The four sporting houses of McAuley, Patrick, Marcellin and Brendan are named after the founders of the school. High performing students can progress to regional, zone and state carnivals after the school carnivals (BISSA).\n\nThe School also annually enters teams into:\n\n", "id": "7736138", "categories": ["1921 establishments in Australia", "Griffith, New South Wales", "Roman Catholic Diocese of Wagga Wagga", "Sisters of Mercy schools", "Catholic secondary schools in New South Wales"], "title": "Marian Catholic College"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736148", "text": "Stupid, Stupid Man\n\nStupid, Stupid Man is an Australian television comedy which originally aired on TV1. It is set in the office of a fictional men's magazine \"COQ\" (Chap's Own Quarterly), parodying such men's magazines as \"FHM\" and \"Ralph\". The first season began broadcasting on 14 November 2006, and a second season began on 11 December 2007. On 29 January 2008, the final episode of the show aired, and it was cancelled.\n\n\"Stupid, Stupid Man\" centres on the lives of the four men on the editorial team and the women that work with them. Carl Van Dyke (Wayne Hope), is the Editor whose roots and aspirations lie with real news journalism. Nick Driscoll (Matthew Newton), is the Features Writer who is smart and very charming, but lazy. Dave Muir (Bob Franklin), is the self-doubting Advice columnist. Tina Carmody (Sophie Katinis) is the smart and sexy Personal Assistant, who understands the paradoxical world of men's magazines, is an astute judge of character with a disarming ability to speak her mind. Ross Hampton (Chris Leaney) is the shy, aspirational Copy Boy, who still lives with his mum. Anne Cassidy (Leah Vandenberg), is the stylish and successful Publisher who knows more about men she works with than they know about themselves.\n\n\nGuest stars included: Georgie Parker, Tasma Walton, Anne Fulwood, Barry Otto, Sarah Chalmers, Greg Matthews, Natalie Bassingthwaighte, Kristian Schmid, Felix Williamson, Richard Carter, Kate Bell and Leo Sayer.\n\n\nGuest stars include: Stephen Curry, Marcus Graham, Jacqueline McKenzie, Richard Carter, Terry Serio, Leo Sayer, Maria Venuti, Emily Taheny, Nicholas Zefaris, Jordan Raskopoulos, Helen Thomson, Christopher Parson, Josh Clabburn, Courtney-Jane Polder, Rachel Van Dyke and Cariba Heine.\n\n\n", "id": "7736148", "categories": ["2006 Australian television series debuts", "2008 Australian television series endings", "Television shows set in New South Wales", "Australian television sitcoms", "TV1 (Australia) shows", "2000s Australian television series"], "title": "Stupid, Stupid Man"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736236", "text": "Santa Clara Indian Reservation\n\nThe Santa Clara Indian Reservation is an Indian reservation in north-central New Mexico, United States. It is the homeland of a branch of the Pueblo people of Native Americans. The reservation lies on 76.73 sq mi (198.729 km²) of southern Rio Arriba, northeastern Sandoval, and northern Santa Fe Counties. It includes the community (census designated place) of Santa Clara Pueblo, as well as parts of three other communities. The total population living on Santa Clara Pueblo land as of the 2000 census was 10,658 persons. Most of the population lives in the northeastern corner of the reservation. The largest community on reservation land is the city of Española, although a part of the city is not on reservation territory.\n\n\n", "id": "7736236", "categories": ["Jemez Mountains", "American Indian reservations in New Mexico", "Geography of Sandoval County, New Mexico", "Santa Clara Pueblo", "Native American tribes in New Mexico", "Geography of Rio Arriba County, New Mexico", "Geography of Santa Fe County, New Mexico"], "title": "Santa Clara Indian Reservation"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736247", "text": "Tanaka Chigaku\n\nTanaka Chigaku (田中智學, 1861–1939) was a Japanese Buddhist scholar and preacher of Nichiren Buddhism, orator, writer and ultranationalist propagandist in the Meiji, Taishō and early Shōwa periods. He is considered to be the father of Nichirenism, the fiercely ultranationalistic blend of Nichiren Buddhism and Japanese Nationalism espoused by such figures as Nissho Inoue, Kanji Ishiwara and Ikki Kita. Notably, however, the children's writer, poet, and rural activist Kenji Miyazawa also idolized Tanaka, and both Miyazawa and Ishiwara joined his flagship organization, the Kokuchūkai, in 1920.\n\nBorn Tada Tomonosuke in Tokyo (then called Edo), the third son of a noted physician and former devotee of Pure Land Buddhism who had converted to Nichiren Buddhism, Tanaka was placed under the care of the Rev. Kawase Nichiren following the death of his parents in 1870. Enrolled as a novice at Kawase's temple, he later entered the Nichiren Buddhist academy of Daikyo-in (the predecessor to Rissho University), during which time he adopted the sobriquet \"Chigaku\", meaning \"Wisdom and Learning\".\n\nHowever, during this time, Tanaka came to be disillusioned with the sect's leadership, who he considered too passive in their teachings, and in 1879 he abandoned the priesthood and set out to establish himself as a lay preacher of the \"true\" Nichiren Buddhism. Briefly employed at a German engineering company in Yokohama, he was quickly drawn to religious proselytizing, joining the lay organization Nichirenkai (日蓮会) as a preacher, in which capacity he honed his public speaking skills and developed his own distinct uncompromising Nichiren doctrine, which he came to refer to as \"Nichirenism\" (日蓮主義, \"Nichirenshugi\").\n\nThe 1890s saw Tanaka's spiritual philosophy evolve in an increasingly nationalistic manner, taking to concluding his works with the twin salutations of Namu Myōhō Renge Kyō \"Homage to the \"Lotus Sutra\"\" and \"Imperial Japan for Ever and Ever\" (). The decade saw him carry out extensive lecturing tours throughout Japan and establish his Nichiren study group, Rissho Ankokukai (立正安国会) from his new base in Kamakura.\n\nA noted anti-Christian and staunch opponent of Christian missionaries in Japan, he applauded Japan's triumph in the Russo-Japanese War in 1905, stating that \"The war with Russia is divinely inspired to make Japanese citizens aware of their heavenly task.\" In 1908, he moved his base to Miho, Shizuoka Prefecture, where he would write his most famous work, \"The Doctrine of Saint Nichiren\" () in 1911, in which he casts the radical 13th century priest Nichiren as the champion of the Japanese nation, and called for world unification through Nichirenism with the emperor as its core. \"Japan's very purpose of existence,\" he writes, \"is the implementation of this plan, as a country conceived for building Nichiren Buddhism.\"\n\nin 1914, Tanaka amalgamated all of his followers into a single organization, the ( based in Miho. He would maintain a busy lecture schedule until illness curtailed his activities in the late 1930s, traveling not only throughout Japan but also embarking on speaking tours of Japanese-occupied Korea and Manchukuo, where he supported and gave lectures to Puyi, who had been appointed Emperor of Manchukuo. His nationalist and imperialist convictions only hardened with age, believing that Japan's 1931 takeover of Manchuria was divinely ordained and part of a divine plan to spread the \"true\" Nichiren Buddhism throughout Asia. He even went as far as to compile diagrams of the states in which the \"Nichirenization\" of the world would take place. By the 1950s he foresaw a total of 19,900 students, 19,200 instructors and 23,033,250 followers spread across the Asia-Pacific region reaching as far as New Zealand.\n\nWhile best known as a preacher and an orator, Tanaka was also a skilled poet and dramatist with a keen interest in the traditional theatrical arts of Japan. He wrote and performed numerous plays, all with a heavily moralistic undertone, and produced a volume of essays, songs and poems.\n\nTanaka died in 1939 at the age of 79, and is entombed in the Myoshu Mausoleum in Tokyo. His son, Dr. Satomi Kishio, took over the reins of his organization, and remained a staunch defender of his father in the postwar era when numerous academics denounced him as a fascist for his ideology's links to such ultranationalist figures as Nissho and Kita.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7736247", "categories": ["Nichiren Buddhism", "Japanese Buddhists", "1939 deaths", "1861 births", "People from Tokyo", "People from Shizuoka Prefecture"], "title": "Tanaka Chigaku"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736292", "text": "American Plunge\n\nAmerican Plunge is a log flume water ride at Silver Dollar City in Branson, Missouri. The queueing line of this ride is parallel to the path to Silver Dollar City's steel looping coaster, Wildfire.\n\nThe American Plunge notably replaced \"Jim Owens Float Trip\" (1969 to 1980), a boat ride around a man-made river with animatronics. The float trip included a tumbling outhouse, whirlpools and a dark cave. Some sections of the original ride's man-made river were reused for the log flume and troughs from the float trip and Silver Dollar City left the rest for scenery. A large portion of the ride’s channel are no longer used, however they still exist and are used as theme in Wildfire’s overflow queue-line.\nThe American Plunge’s theme is centered on Ozark daredevilry. The trip is a race to the plunge. Along the way you encounter others trying to beat you to the summit. Your opponents are facing obstacles of their own, tumbling off cliffs, broken boat and a whirlpool. You yourself become the hero by defying the plunge and turn into a legend. The American Plunge’s boats are themed as tonic barrels and can carry a total of six passengers.\n\nFour to six riders enter the tonic shaped flumes. You first travel through a long dark tunnel. At the end of the tunnel water sprayers threaten to get riders wet but are timed to shut off right before you go through them. After coming out of the tunnel you go by different scenes, including a man that appears to be drowning. After all of the scenes, you go through a second tunnel, up a lift-hill, and down a steep drop into water. Then you slowly float around the exit path back into the station.\n\n\n", "id": "7736292", "categories": [], "title": "American Plunge"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736329", "text": "Municipality of Kiama\n\nThe Municipality of Kiama is a local government area in the Illawarra region of New South Wales, Australia. The area is situated south of Shellharbour and the City of Wollongong and is located adjacent to the Pacific Ocean, the Princes Highway and the South Coast railway line.\n\nThe Municipality of Kiama contains the following towns and localities:\n\nThe municipality of Kiama was created in 1859. There were three wards: Kiama, Gerringong and Jamberoo. The first council comprised James Colley, John Sharpe and Joseph Pike (representing the Kiama Ward); John Hukins, John Colley and John Hanrahan (representing the Jamberoo Ward); and Joseph Blow, Robert Miller and James Robinson (representing the Gerringong Ward). The first mayor of Kiama was James Colley.\n\nIn 1871, Gerringong separated from the Kiama municipality and Jamberoo in 1892. In 1954, the Gerringong, Jamberoo and Kiama municipalities were amalgamated forming today's current municipal boundaries.\n\nKiama has had three female mayors: Ruth Devenney (1991 until 1992), Joyce Wheatley (1992 until 2000) and Sandra McCarthy (2000 until 2012).\n\nA 2015 review of local government boundaries recommended that the Municipality of Kiama merge with the City of Shoalhaven to form a new council with an area of and support a population of approximately . The Kiama community along with the Shoalhaven community actively campaigned against any forced council amalgamation between the two councils. Kiama council held a non-compulsory poll on 7 May 2016 to grasp community attitudes to the proposal. The results of the poll concluded that 95% of the community supported remaining an independent council, with a 49.9% turnout. On 12 May 2016, the NSW State Government determined not to amalgamate Kiama and Shoalhaven council areas.\n\nAt the the total population of the Municipality was 21,464 people. The median age of the community was 47 years.\n\nAlmost 21% of the population was born outside of Australia, predominately migration from North-West Europe. The Indigenous Australian population is 2% of the total community population.\n\nEnglish was spoken as a first language by 90% of the population. The top response for language other than English spoken was Italian.\n\nThe Council of the Municipality of Kiama is composed of nine Councillors elected proportionally as a single ward. All Councillors are elected for a fixed four-year term of office. The Mayor is elected by the Councillors at the first meeting of the Council. The most recent election was held on 10 September 2016 and the makeup of the Council is as follows:\n\nThe current Council, elected in 2016, in order of election, is:\n\n\n", "id": "7736329", "categories": ["1859 establishments in Australia", "Local government areas of New South Wales"], "title": "Municipality of Kiama"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736330", "text": "Stratford University\n\nStratford University, a Virginia public benefit corporation, is a for-profit college founded in 1976. Stratford is an open enrollment institution that specializes in adult education. It delivers online, classroom, and blended online/classroom programs.\n\nStratford University is headquartered in Fairfax, Virginia and has campuses in Virginia (Alexandria, Falls Church, Woodbridge, Newport News, Virginia Beach, and Richmond), Maryland (Baltimore ), and India (New Delhi ). The majority of the student body is non-traditional and works full-time while attending school. Stratford's international student body represents over thirty countries.\n\nThe Stratford campus in India is a joint venture with the Modi Group, created to offer residential American degrees in India. The legal name of the Indian joint venture is Modi Stratford Education Management (MSEM), Pvt. Ltd. The Modi Stratford Foundation, a wholly owned non-profit subsidiary of MSEM, delivers the academic programs in India as an accredited campus of Stratford University.\n\nStratford University awards graduate and undergraduate degrees in a number of disciplines including business administration, computer information systems, health sciences, nursing, culinary arts, and hotel management. Online, residential, and blended programs are available. All online and blended courses use the Stratford online Moodle platform hosted in Stratford's data center.\n\nThe table below lists all programs and indicates which are available online.\n\nAccording to the US Department of Education College Navigator, Stratford University's student body is 57 percent black or African American, 18 percent white, and 8 percent Hispanic. \nAccording to the College Scorecard, student outcomes include a 25 percent graduation rate and a 24 percent student loan repayment rate. Typical debt after graduation is $32,625 and earnings after school are $35,500. \n\nDr. Richard R. Shurtz II, Stratford president, won the 2009 Ernst & Young Entrepreneur Of The Year award in Greater Washington for the Government/Education Services category. Stratford University was ranked as one of the \"Top 100 Graduate Degree Producers for All Disciplines\" in 2009 by Diverse Education.\n\nIn 2015,The PeaceJam Foundation's 'One Billion Acts of Peace' campaign awarded its first annual Hero Award to Stratford University for \"Best University Act\". PeaceJam judges \"recognized Stratford University as a true agent of change in helping to solve some of the biggest global issues around the world.\" Stratford University was one of only five worldwide recipients.\n\nStratford University received the Virginia V3 Perseverando Award for both 2015 and 2015. The awards were presented to Stratford by Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe of at the Annual Chamber of Commerce Workforce Conference in Richmond.\n\nIn 2016, U.S. Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker presented Stratford University with the President’s “E” Award for Exports at a ceremony in Washington, D.C. The President's \"E\" Award is the highest recognition any U.S. entity can receive for making a significant contribution to the expansion of U.S. exports. The 'E' Awards noted Stratford University's dedication to providing quality education to students around the world, particularly its investment in language training programs.\n\nStratford University offers a number of non-credit continuing education and professional development courses.\n\nStratford University has established a number of programs to help US military and former-US military personnel complete their education.\n\nStratford University signed a letter of intent for an affiliation with Baltimore International College (BIC) on August 12, 2011. The university has received approval from the \"Maryland Higher Education Commission\"and Baltimore officially became an additional location of Stratford University on December 1, 2011.\n\nStratford University signed a memorandum of understanding with Sojourner-Douglass College (SDC) on April 2, 2015. This memorandum outlines a process through which SDC programs will transition to Stratford after June 30, 2015, the date that SDC loses it accreditation. This location will be renamed the \"Sojourner-Douglass Center at Stratford University\".\n\nStratford University, headquartered in Fairfax, Virginia, has campuses in Virginia, Maryland and India. Stratford University's main campus is located in Falls Church, Virginia near Tysons Corner. It has six additional US campuses in Alexandria, Virginia near Telegraph Road, Woodbridge, Virginia near Potomac Mills, in Richmond, Virginia near Short Pump, in Newport News, Virginia near Oyster Point, in Virginia Beach, Virginia near Town Center and in Baltimore, Maryland near the Inner Harbor.\n\nIn 2009, the University opened two learning sites in New Delhi, India. Stratford has a main learning site and one satellite learning site in the New Delhi region. The main learning site is located in South Delhi. The satellite learning site is located in Gurgaon.\n\nThe Stratford University Newport News and Virginia Beach Campuses offers Men's Basketball, Men's Baseball, Women's Soccer, and Women's Softball. Stratford University is a member of the United States Collegiate Athletic Association (USCAA).\n\nStratford University offers a wide range of services to assist the students and faculty, some of which include:\n\nStratford University has been endorsed and/or accredited by a broad range of organizations and agencies.\n\n", "id": "7736330", "categories": ["Universities and colleges in Delhi", "Education in Falls Church, Virginia", "Education in Newport News, Virginia", "Education in Richmond, Virginia", "Colleges accredited by the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools", "1976 establishments in Virginia", "Universities and colleges in Virginia", "Universities and colleges in Washington, D.C.", "Education in Prince William County, Virginia", "Education in Alexandria, Virginia", "Educational institutions established in 1976", "Distance education institutions", "Education in Virginia Beach, Virginia"], "title": "Stratford University"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736362", "text": "2005 Pennsylvania General Assembly pay raise controversy\n\nIn the early morning hours of July 7, 2005, the Pennsylvania General Assembly passed pay increases for state lawmakers, judges, and top executive-branch officials. The vote took place at 2 am without public review or commentary and Governor Ed Rendell signed the bill into law. The raise increased legislators' base pay from 16% to 34% depending on position.\n\nThe pay raise included a provision allowing legislators to take their raises immediately in the form of \"unvouchered expenses.\" This provision was included due to the Pennsylvania Constitution's clause prohibiting legislators from taking salary increases in the same term as which they are passed. State courts have ruled similar legislation to be constitutional on three separate occasions.\n\nOutrage over the pay raise was picked up by several influential state blogs like Grassrootspa and PennPatriot Blog. Advocacy groups spawned several grass-roots movements, some geared toward voting out incumbents and some seeking support for a Constitutional Convention or a reduction in the size of the legislature. . The legislature repealed the pay raise after four months by a 50-0 vote in the senate and 197-1 vote in the house. \n\nThe first victim of the public uproar was Supreme Court Justice Russell M. Nigro who became the first Pennsylvania Supreme Court Justice to be denied retention. Nigro asserted that he had not taken part in the pay raise. However, critics noted that Chief Justice Ralph Cappy helped draft the bill and that prior Court opinions upheld such practices.\n\nOn November 16, 2005, Governor Rendell signed a repeal of the pay raise after a near unanimous vote for repeal; only House Minority Whip Mike Veon voted against the repeal.\n\nDespite the repeal, a total of 17 legislators were defeated in the 2006 primary elections including Senate President Pro Tempore Robert Jubelirer and Senate Majority Leader David J. Brightbill. They were the first top-ranking Pennsylvania legislative leaders to lose a primary election since 1964.\n\nThe November 2006 General Election claimed several more members who supported the pay raise including Republican representatives Gene McGill, Matt Wright, Tom Gannon and Matthew Good and Democrat Veon. The defeats were widely attributed to anger over the pay raise. \n\nFrank LaGrotta, who was defeated in the 2006 primary election over the pay raise issue, was one of many legislators who were paying back their unvouchered expenses in installments. After pleading guilty to two counts of conflict of interest for hiring relatives as \"ghost employees,\" he stopped repayment and was even refunded the amount that he had previously returned.\n\nIn November 2009, Barbara McIlvaine Smith announced that she would not run for re-election in 2010, saying that she was frustrated with the progress of the post-pay raise reform movement. However, she ultimately did run for re-election in 2010 and lost to Republican challenger Dan Truitt.\n\n", "id": "7736362", "categories": ["2005 in American politics", "Pennsylvania General Assembly", "Political scandals in Pennsylvania"], "title": "2005 Pennsylvania General Assembly pay raise controversy"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736370", "text": "KHFM\n\nKHFM is a non-commercial FM radio station based in Albuquerque, New Mexico, United States of America and licensed to Santa Fe. Its broadcasts are primarily of classical music, with frequent selections drawn from musical theatre, interspersed among the classical pieces. Its main broadcast is on 95.5 MHz licensed to Santa Fe. Its broadcasts are also passed through several repeater stations to extend its range, and in addition, are available on-line by way of the station's web site (see following section). Its studios are located in Northeast Albuquerque and the transmitter tower is located west of Los Alamos, New Mexico.\n\n\nKHFM was started in November 1954 as a hobby of two teachers at Highland High School, broadcasting at 96.3. It was the first commercial FM station in Albuquerque. It had been locally operated until 1996, when it was sold to Citadel Broadcasting. Citadel would continue to run the classical format on 96.3 for about five years until March 2001, when they had planned to drop the format in favor of classic rock. American General Media had agreed to pick up the format for 95.5, with Citadel continuing to handle sales via a joint sales agreement until 2005. At the end of that year, the station would be relayed on translator K275AO at 102.9 to improve coverage in the eastern part of the city. This lasted until 2013, when AGM had opted to use the translator to broadcast KARS.\n\nIn 2008, KHFM won the New Mexico governors award for excellence in the arts. At the same time American General Media had laid off many of the station's long-time staff with family members of company ownership taking over programming.\n\nOn June 14, 2017, AGM announced that it will donate KHFM to KHFM Community Partners, a non-profit organization that plans to convert the station to a non-commercial status and retain the Classical format, as part of a deal where AGM will acquire Univision's entire Albuquerque cluster, but must spin off four stations to meet ownership limits. The license was modified on September 1, 2017. Previously, KHFM had been one of the few commercial classical stations in the United States.\n\n", "id": "7736370", "categories": ["Classical music radio stations in the United States", "Radio stations in Santa Fe, New Mexico", "Radio stations established in 1965"], "title": "KHFM"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736402", "text": "Caid (sport)\n\nCaid () are various ancient and traditional Irish football games. \"Caid\" is now used by people in some parts of Ireland to refer to modern Gaelic football.\n\nThe word \"caid\" originally referred to the ball which was used. It was made out of animal skin, with a natural bladder inside.\n\n\"Caid\" is believed to have influenced the modern sport of Gaelic football the rules of which were officially published in 1887 and is now organised and governed by the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) as an amateur sport. \n\nThere is some evidence that \"caid\" was taken around the world by the Irish diaspora, and some historians argue that it may have also played some part in the origins of Australian rules football, although such a relationship is controversial and the subject of debate. \n\nThe first recorded mention of football in Ireland was in 1308, when John McCrocan, a spectator at a football game at Newcastle, County Down, was charged with accidentally stabbing a player named William Bernard. Football games are mentioned in the \"Statute of Galway\", 1527, which allowed the playing of football and archery, but banned \"'hokie' — the hurling of a little ball with sticks or staves\", as well as other sports. The Sunday Observance Act of 1695 imposed a fine of one shilling for anyone found playing. Despite this, the earliest recorded football match in Ireland was one between Louth and Meath, at Slane, in 1712.\n\n\"Caid\" was especially popular in rural areas, such as the Dingle Peninsula of Kerry and Eigeen in west Cork. One observer in the mid-19th century, Father W. Ferris, described two main forms of \"caid\" during this period: the \"field game\" in which the object was to put the ball through arch-like goals, formed from the boughs of two trees, and; the epic \"cross-country game\" which took up most of the daylight hours of a Sunday on which it was played, and was won by one team taking the ball across a parish boundary. Both of these were rough and tumble contact sports in which \"wrestling\", pushing and the holding of opposing players was allowed. It was usually played by teams of unlimited numbers, representing communities, until a clear result was achieved or the players became too exhausted to continue. \n\nThese games appear to have been similar to the traditional Welsh game of \"cnapan\", which was played by teams of up to 1,000 men from adjacent parishes. \"Cnapan\", however, was played with a hard ball and thus involved no kicking; it was strictly a game in which the ball was passed or smuggled from one player to another, with the object of getting it to the opposing team's parish church porch or to some other agreed destination. An inter parish mob football game similar to \"cnapan\" called \"Hyrlîan\" (In English \"Hurling\") is still played in Cornwall on dates that coincide with religious festivals such as Shrove Tuesday.\n\nBy the late 19th century, \"caid\" was in steep decline and was threatened with extinction, spurring the formation of the GAA which published official rules for the game in 1887 also adopting aspects of the earlier codified sport - hurling.\n", "id": "7736402", "categories": ["Gaelic football", "Ball games"], "title": "Caid (sport)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736410", "text": "Wilfred Eade Agar\n\nWilfred Eade Agar FRS (27 April 1882 – 14 July 1951) was an Anglo-Australian zoologist.\n\nAgar was born in Wimbledon, England. He was educated at Sedbergh School, Yorkshire, and at King's College, Cambridge, where he read zoology. He served at Gallipoli in World War I. His father was a solicitor and businessman and he was the first to find a hockey game in its modern form. \n\nIn 1908 Agar had married Elizabeth MacDonald in Glasgow. Together with his family Agar lived on the university campus until his retirement in 1948, then they moved to Kew. Being retired he continued to do researches and write but was extremely worried about his poor health. He had suffered from a coronary thrombosis in 1947 and on 14 July 1951 he died at Kew; survived by his wife, two sons and three daughters, he was cremated.\n\nIn 1904 Agar was declared as a demonstrator in zoology at University of Glasgow, where he put down roots in teaching and research. His work on the embryology of the lungfish Lepidosiren and Protopterus caused a fellowship at King's College, Cambridge; this did not make an impact on his leaving Glasgow, for he had to continue academic and research work.\n\nThe work on Lepidosiren was very precious for him. The cells of this fish, being unusually large, offer favourable material for the study of chromosomes and in 1907, aided by grants from the Royal Society and the Balfour Fund at Cambridge, Agar made an expedition to the almost unreachable Gran Chaco, Paraguay, to collect material for cytological study. His intensive study of spermatogenesis in Lepidosiren represented critical confirmation that the chromosome mechanism could provide a physical basis for Mendel's laws. Another meaningful contribution to Mendelian theory arrived at his work on inheritance in parthenogenetic crustacea. He found out that apart from rare mutations, the genetic constitution of these crustacea remained unchanged, generation after generation. This work provided the first direct evidence from animals that the segregation of genes is according to the segregation of homologous chromosomes at meiosis.\n\nIn 1919, he accepted the chair of zoology at the University of Melbourne; his notable projects concerned marsupial chromosomes and inheritance in cattle. Doing it, he was afraid of giving up most of his ambitions; his anxiety seemed justified when he realized that he was to give all the lectures and conduct a big amount of the laboratory classes without help. He successfully challenged the Lamarckian findings of William McDougall relating to the inheritance of the effects of training in rats. Agar offered the newer disciplines of cytology and genetics and these remained his principal teaching interest. However, his courses were the first of such kind in Australian universities. He established the studies on marsupial chromosomes and his paper on inheritance in cattle is considered to be the earliest in Australia to introduce genetical techniques to animal-breeding.\n\nFrom student days, Agar had taken an interest in the problem of Lamarckian inheritance. Like a majority of biologists he turned down the theory that acquired characters are inherited, but it kept on receiving support. The most crucial of Agar's contributions to this dispute was his repetition of an experiment which the psychologist William McDougall proclaimed had demonstrated the inheritance of the effects of training in rats. It was the most significant evidence published in support of the Lamarckian theory and not many criticisms treated it seriously weakened McDougall's claim. However, the results of Agar's properly checked the experiment, continued over twenty years, completely rejected the Lamarckian interpretation of McDougall's experiment.\n\nHe was elected to the Royal Society in 1921. \n\nIn 1938 Agar was elected president of the Eugenics Society of Victoria. He said \"it was a disastrous state of affairs that size of families was usually in inverse ratio to intelligence.\"\nAlthough Agar was retired, he devoted himself to administrative work at the university. He was a council-member during a great deal of years, twice dean of the faculty of science, and chairman of the professorial board in 1931-34, regulating the cogitations that happened before the appointment of a full-time vice-chancellor. His services to science and to the university were recognized by an O.B.E. in 1939 and a C.B.E. in 1948.\n\nIn his early years in Melbourne, Agar got interested in animal psychology and implemented experiments on the capacity to learn by experience of a range of animals from amoeba to crayfish and snails. These studies during a long period were a source of great enjoyment for him. They gave few publications but created in return for a background for his increasing preoccupation with wide biological concepts and the philosophy of science which was represented in \"A Contribution to the Theory of the Living Organism\" (Melbourne, 1943; second edition, 1951). Agar devoted this book to undoubtedly his most important contribution to biological theory. The book was based on the system of Whitehead's philosophy of the organism and argued for a form panpsychism.\n\nAgar was awarded the Clarke Medal by the Royal Society of New South Wales in 1944 and elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Society\nAgar's scientific achievements were greatly recognized. His scholarship and balanced judgment gained him the respect and faith of his colleagues,students and acquaintances. His distinctive traits of character were kindness, determination and courtesy. Except of his scientific interests, he was deeply interested in philosophy, enjoyed poetry and drama and sometimes drew some water-colour sketching.\n\nAgar Street in the Canberra suburb of Bruce was dedicated in his name.\n\n", "id": "7736410", "categories": ["Critics of Lamarckism", "Alumni of King's College, Cambridge", "Panpsychism", "Alumni of the University of Glasgow", "1882 births", "1951 deaths", "Australian zoologists", "Fellows of the Royal Society"], "title": "Wilfred Eade Agar"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736442", "text": "Navegantes del Magallanes\n\nThe Navegantes del Magallanes (Magellan Navigators), commonly known as Magallanes, are a baseball team in the Venezuelan Professional Baseball League. Based in Valencia, Magallanes has won 12 LVBP championships and two (2) Caribbean Series. It was founded on October 26th of 1917, making it the oldest sports club in Venezuela, and one of the most popular baseball teams in the country. It has a historic rivalry with Leones del Caracas, not just in the Venezuelan League but in all of the Cabbean Leagues, often referred as El Juego de los Eternos Rivales (The Eternal Rivals Game).\n\nThe Capy is the official mascot of the Navegantes del Magallanes baseball team. The bird wears a navigator costume. He has a girlfriend named Lola, a very charming parrot.\n\n\n", "id": "7736442", "categories": ["Baseball teams in Venezuela"], "title": "Navegantes del Magallanes"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736447", "text": "South Bend International Airport\n\nSouth Bend International Airport \nis three miles northwest of South Bend, in St. Joseph County, Indiana, United States. It is the state's third busiest airport in terms of passenger traffic after Indianapolis International Airport and Fort Wayne International Airport.\n\nThe National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2015–2019 called it a \"primary commercial service\" facility.\n\nFederal Aviation Administration and St. Joseph County Airport Authority records show the airport had 328,992 passenger enplanements in 2013, 311,158 in 2014, and 314,300 in 2015.\n\nIn the early days South Bend's main airport was Cadet Field in present-day Granger. Vincent Hugo Bendix, founder of Bendix Aviation, bought land northwest of South Bend in 1929 to provide air service closer to the city. Bendix Municipal Airport opened in 1933.\n\nBendix Airport was later called St. Joseph County Airport, then Michiana Regional Transportation Center. The airport was renamed South Bend Regional Airport on January 1, 2000, to help identify the airport, many travelers not knowing the meaning of Michiana (taken from \"Michigan\" and \"Indiana\").\n\nThe April 1957 OAG shows 10 weekday departures on North Central, 9 on United, 6 on Lake Central and 3 on TWA. North Central Airlines merged with Southern Airways on July 1, 1979, commencing operations with Republic from South Bend.\n\nUntil the 1980s the airport had four runways; in the 1950s runway 9 was 5000 ft, runways 6 (now taxiway A-3) and 12 (now taxiway A-4) were 4000 ft and the 3059-ft runway 18 connected the west ends of runways 6 and 12. In 1963-65 runway 9 was extended to 6000 ft. In January 1967 SBN got its first scheduled jets, United Caravelles flying Chicago O'Hare-South Bend-Fort Wayne-Newark and back.\n\nOn April 23, 2014, the St. Joseph County Airport Authority announced the airport was changing its name from South Bend Regional Airport to South Bend International Airport. The Airport Authority has had conversations with two airlines interested in providing service to Mexico and the Bahamas and indicated that it was looking at service to Toronto, Ireland and Europe. As part of the change, the airport will begin a $3 million(USD) project to construct a general aviation facility and a border customs area, to be financed through federal, state and airport funds.\n\nThe airport is governed by the St. Joseph County Airport Authority, which is a municipality in the State of Indiana. Its four bipartisan board members are appointed by the St. Joseph County Commissioners. The Airport Authority is directed by Mike Daigle who is an accredited airport executive. Board members include Thomas S. Botkin, Abraham Marcus, David R. Sage and James V. Wyllie. The Airport Authority employs approximately 60 staff members.\n\nThe mission of the St. Joseph County Airport Authority as defined is \"to maximize the safety, service, efficiency and effectiveness of South Bend Airport for the traveling public, and to promote the value of the airport to the community.\"\n\nThe airport covers 2,200 acres (890 ha) at an elevation of 799 feet (244 m). It has three asphalt runways: 9L/27R is 4,300 by 75 feet (1,311 x 23 m); 9R/27L is 8,414 by 150 feet (2,565 x 46 m); 18/36 is 7,100 by 150 feet (2,164 x 46 m).\n\nThe terminal, built in 1981 and designed by HOK and Cole Associates \nand expanded in 2011 by Ken Herceg & Associates, has one nine-gate concourse. Six of the nine gates (3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9) have jetways, while three (1, 2, 4) are ground-level. Amenities include cafes and restaurants, a concession area/lounge, a gift shop, a children's play area, a business center, and free Wi-Fi available throughout the terminal.\n\nDespite being partially obstructed by the new concourse the in-terminal viewing area remains open and offers live air traffic control transmissions from South Bend Air Traffic Control Tower/TRACON as well as a small airport-focused museum. The viewing area is located on the second level of the terminal's atrium adjacent to US Customs.\n\nThe airport is one of the few multi-modal transportation facilities in America that provide air, interstate bus and interstate rail service at one terminal. The St. Joseph County Airport Authority claims the airport was the first truly multi-modal airport in the country.\n\nJune 2017 brought the grand opening of SBN's International General Aviation Facility (GAF) which cleared nearly 60 international aircraft in its first partial year of operation.\n\nWithin Indiana, the airport is third in passenger enplanements (305,491) after Indianapolis International (3,605,908) and Fort Wayne International (323,252). The airport is in second place behind Indianapolis in cargo operations and third in the state for overall take-offs and landings. Due to South Bend's proximity to Chicago, South Bend air traffic controllers work closely with Chicago Center and Chicago Approach Control to sequence aircraft into and out of Chicago's terminal airspace. These efforts make South Bend's Tower/TRACON the second busiest terminal air traffic facility in the state and one of the busiest in the region.\n\nIn 2017 the airport handled 42,422 aircraft operations, averaging 118 per day. The TRACON handled over 150,000 operations in 2017 which is more traffic than the individual radar facilities in Grand Rapids, Kalamazoo, Fort Wayne, Evansville, Lansing and Muskegon.\n\nSouth Bend's four airlines have non-stop flights to eleven cities. Allegiant operates their Airbus A320 family to Las Vegas, Phoenix–Mesa, Orlando–Sanford, Punta Gorda/Fort Myers, and Tampa/St. Petersburg, American via American Eagle flies to Charlotte and Dallas/Fort Worth, United operates CRJ200s and ERJ-145s to Chicago O'Hare and Newark via their regional partners SkyWest and Expressjet, and Delta operates CRJ200 service to Atlanta, Detroit and Minneapolis through regional partner SkyWest. Due to the airport's close proximity to the University of Notre Dame, Delta operates seasonal mainline flights during graduation and home football games to Atlanta, Detroit, Minneapolis, as well as New York–La Guardia with their Airbus A320s, Boeing 717s, or McDonnell Douglas MD80 series aircraft. Additionally, Delta provides charter operations to the Notre Dame Fighting Irish football team using Boeing 757, Boeing 767, or Airbus A330 series aircraft. The multi-modal terminal serves over one million air, rail and bus passengers each year.\n\nAccording to the 2007 Economic Impact Report from the Aviation Authority of Indiana, the airport's annual economic impact on South Bend and surrounding communities was in excess of $433.7 million. SBN's annual contribution to the Indiana economy is estimated at more than $1.4 billion.\n\nOn January 18, American Airlines announced service to Dallas Fort Worth and Charlotte beginning June 7, 2018. The service will have two flights to each city a day with the use of a CRJ-700 operated by regional partner ExpressJet.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7736447", "categories": ["Airports established in 1933", "Buildings and structures in South Bend, Indiana", "Airports in Indiana", "Airfields of the United States Army Air Forces Air Transport Command in North America", "South Shore Line", "Airfields of the United States Army Air Forces in Indiana", "Transportation in South Bend, Indiana", "1933 establishments in Indiana"], "title": "South Bend International Airport"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736451", "text": "A Year at the Movies: One Man's Filmgoing Odyssey\n\nA Year at the Movies: One Man's Filmgoing Odyssey is a book written by \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\" performer Kevin Murphy about his experiences of seeing a movie each day, for the entire year of 2001. Much of the content derives not only from Murphy's \"filmgoing odyssey\" but also from his thoughts and observations on the changing nature of the filmgoing experience itself. Murphy comments extensively on the overwhelming prevalence of multiplex movie theaters which generally screen Hollywood blockbuster films at the expense of a wider range of classic, independent and foreign language films. While many of the daily film viewings chronicled in the book fall into the Hollywood kitsch category, quite a few sections deal with films that Murphy actually enjoyed watching, whether because of the film itself or because of the quality of the theater in which it was viewed.\n\nSome notable experiences:\n\n", "id": "7736451", "categories": ["Books about film", "2002 non-fiction books"], "title": "A Year at the Movies: One Man's Filmgoing Odyssey"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736452", "text": "Gene Hooks Stadium\n\nGene Hooks Stadium was a baseball stadium in Winston-Salem, NC. It was the primary home field of the Wake Forest University Demon Deacons college baseball teams from 1981 through 2008.\n\nWake Forest University's baseball program moved to the former home of the Winston-Salem minor league baseball team, formerly called Ernie Shore Field, now called Wake Forest Baseball Stadium, several years ago. The stadium is located on Deacon Boulevard, adjacent to BB&T Field, home of Wake Forest Football, and Joel Coliseum, the city-of-Winston-Salem-owned home of Wake Forest Men's and Women's Basketball. The former Gene Hooks Field on campus was demolished, as WFU does not have a women's softball team, the actual field at Wake Forest Baseball Stadium, was named Gene Hooks Field.\n\nThe stadium opened in April 1981. It was originally named Layton Field. In April 1988 it was renamed after former Wake Forest athletic director Gene Hooks. The stands held 2,500 people. Field dimensions were: Left Field - 335 feet; Left Center Field - ?; Center Field - 400 feet; Right Center Field - 370 feet; Right Field - 315 feet.\n\nThe ballpark was part of a complex sitting north of Faculty Drive (home plate / first base side) and a short distance east of Wingate Road (third base side). There were trees beyond right field, and a small practice golf course beyond left and center field. The ballpark sat less than a mile and almost straight west from BB&T Field and Ernie Shore Field.\n\nFor the 2009 season, the team moved back on a full-time basis to their previous home, Ernie Shore Field, which was then renamed Gene Hooks Field at Wake Forest Baseball Park.\n\nThe old Gene Hooks Stadium has since been demolished to make way for expansion of the golf practice course. The walkway forming the boundary of the southwest portion of the practice course roughly outlines the outer edge of the site of the ball field's grandstand.\n", "id": "7736452", "categories": ["College baseball venues in the United States", "1981 establishments in North Carolina", "Wake Forest Demon Deacons baseball", "Baseball venues in North Carolina", "Sports venues in Winston-Salem, North Carolina"], "title": "Gene Hooks Stadium"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736480", "text": "Shire of Brookton\n\nThe Shire of Brookton is a local government area in the Wheatbelt region of Western Australia, about southeast of Perth, the state capital. The Shire covers an area of and its seat of government is the town of Brookton.\n\nThe local economy, worth approximately $25 million per year to the state economy, is based on agriculture - predominantly cereal grains and sheep.\n\nOn 10 September 1906, the Brookton Road Board met for the first time after Mr Samuel Williams led a move by local landowners to break away from the Beverley Road District. On 1 July 1961, it became the Shire of Brookton under the \"Local Government Act 1960\".\n\nThe shire presently is undivided and has 7 councillors. Prior to the 2009 local government election, it was divided into three wards as follows:\n\n\n", "id": "7736480", "categories": [], "title": "Shire of Brookton"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736514", "text": "List of Uyghurs\n\nThis List of Uyghurs includes noted members of the Uyghur ethnic group who today live primarily in the Xinjiang Autonomous Region of north-western China.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7736514", "categories": [], "title": "List of Uyghurs"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736526", "text": "Edmonton Flyers\n\nThe Edmonton Flyers are a defunct ice hockey team that was based in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. The team existed from 1940 until 1963, playing in various senior amateur and minor professional leagues during that time. In 1948, the Flyers won the Allan Cup as Canadian senior hockey champions, and would later capture three Lester Patrick Cups as Western Hockey League champions.\n\nThe Flyers were a minor pro affiliate of the National Hockey League's Detroit Red Wings during their tenure in the WHL. During this time, many future NHL stars passed through the Flyers organization. Among them were Al Arbour, Johnny Bucyk, Glenn Hall, Bronco Horvath, and Norm Ullman.\n\nThe Flyers played in the Edmonton Gardens during their entire existence.\n\nThe Flyers played in the following leagues:\n\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against\"\n\nList of Edmonton Flyers alumni who played more than 100 games in Edmonton and 100 or more games in the National Hockey League.\n\n\n", "id": "7736526", "categories": ["1963 disestablishments in Alberta", "Defunct ice hockey teams in Alberta", "Sports clubs disestablished in 1963", "Ice hockey clubs established in 1940", "Alberta Senior Hockey League teams", "Western Hockey League (1952–74) teams", "Ice hockey teams in Edmonton", "1940 establishments in Alberta"], "title": "Edmonton Flyers"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736553", "text": "Peter Luder\n\nPeter Luder (1415–1472), a professor of Latin at the University of Heidelberg from 1456, was the first to introduce humanist ideas in the university.\n", "id": "7736553", "categories": ["German Renaissance humanists", "1415 births", "Latinists", "1472 deaths"], "title": "Peter Luder"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736571", "text": "Karaikal district\n\nKaraikal district (also \"Karikal\" or \"Karaikkal\") is one of the four districts of the Union Territory of Puducherry in India.\n\nKaraikal city (about 16 km north of Nagappattinam and 12 km south of Tarangambadi) is the regional headquarters. Karaikal region is made up of the Communes of Karaikal, Kottucherry, Nedungadu, Tirunallar, Neravy and Tirumalarajanpattinam.\n\nSeveral explanations are offered for the word \"Karaikal\". The Imperial Gazetteer gives it the meaning 'fish pass'. According to Julien Vinson the town is said to have known as Karaigiri in Sanskrit. However, the name Karaikal is no doubt a combination of two words 'Karai' and 'Kal'. Both the words ‘Karai and 'Kal' have several meanings, of which the more acceptable ones are 'lime mix' and 'canal' respectively. Hence it has been suggested that the name may mean a canal built of lime mix.\n\n\nThis Karaikal area formed an integral part of the Pallava kingdom in the eighth century(C 731-796). Poet Sekkizhar (992-1042) describes the town as \"vanga malik kadar karaikal\", the 'Karaikal of many vessels on the coast' in his Peria puranam. In that the poet relates the life story of one Punithavathiar who abandoned the pleasures of material life and devoted herself entirely to a life of prayer and penance to signify her devotion to Lord Siva. He called her 'Karaikal Ammayar', conveniently after the town which must have been famous already.\n\n\nIn 1738, Dumas, a shrewd calculative prudent man and a lover of peace and above all one who was anxious to extend the French territory in India by smooth means, negotiated with Sahuji of Thanjavur for possession of Karaikal, the fortress of Karakalcheri and 5 village for 40000 chakras. On 14.2.1739 the French took possession of Karaikal town, the fort of Karakalcheri and 8 dependent villages. The King of Thanjavur raised the price for the town of Karaikal and the fort of Karakalcheri to 50000 chakras.\n\nHe also demanded a loan of 150000 chakras without interest repayable in 3 years against the hypothecation of Mayavaram lands and an annual rent of 4000 pagodas for 5 villages. 8The French agreed to all the terms except for the payment of 150000 chakras which was reduced to 10000 chakras while the annual rental was reduce to two or three thousand chakras. The villages so received were Kilaiyur, Melaiyur, Puduthurai, Kovilpathu and Tirumalairayanpattinam. Subsequently, 2 villages were ceded to the French. Pratap Singh who succeeded the throne renewed demand for a loan of 100000 chakra and on receipt of the first instalment of 4000 chakras he assigned 8 more villages to the French viz., Codague (Kondagai), Vanjiyur, Arimullimangalam, Niravi, Dharmapuram, Uzhiapathu, Mattakudi (probably Mathalangudi) and Polagam. Then on 12-2-1740 he sold for 60000 chakras these villages which he had assigned only the previous year for 40000 chakras.\n\nThe same year he pledged Thirunallar Mahanam for 55350 chakras and also pledged 33 villages for 60000 chakras. By a treaty signed on 12.1.1750 Pratap Singh ceded to the French 81 villages around Karaikal and cancelled the annual rent of 2000 pagodas payable for the villages. This was all the territory the French possessed around Thanjavur when they surrendered to the British in 1761. The territory then passed twice to the British control before it was finally handed over to the French in 1816/1817 under the Treaty of Paris, 1814.\n\nThe formation of Karaikal national congress on 13.6.1947 and Students Congress on 31.1.1947 symbolised the first concrete expression of popular desire in Karaikal for freedom from French rule. The French ruled this district till 31 October 1954 on which date the French flag flying atop the government house at Karaikal was lowered with due military honors before a large gathering of officials and non-officials. Thus the de facto transfer of power took place on 1 November 1954 followed by de jure transfer on 16 August 1962.\n\nKaraikal district occupies an area of .\n\nKaraikal is a small coastal enclave of territory which was formerly part of French India. Together with the other former French enclaves of Pondicherry, Yanam, and Mahé, Karaikal forms the Union Territory of Puducherry. Karaikal is bounded on the North and South by Nagapattinam district of Tamil Nadu state, on the west by Tiruvarur district (also belonging to Tamil Nadu), and on the East by the Bay of Bengal. The enclave is located 132 km south of the city of Pondicherry, and is known for its rich cultural heritage.\n\nOn the 26th of December 2004, Karaikal faced its worst tragedy in recent memory. Tsunami waves hit this coastal town and more than 500 people, mostly fishermen and their families, were washed away by the killer waves.\n\nThe main branches of Kaveri below Grand Anicut are the Kodamurutti, Arasalar, Virasolanar and the Vikramanar. Although\nArasalar and its branches spread through Karaikal, the waters of Kodamurutti and Virasolanar also meet the irrigation needs of the\nregion\n\nForming part of the fertile Cauveri delta the region is completely covered by the distributaries of Cauveri. Covered completely by a thick mantle of alluvium of variable thickness, the lie of the region is flat having a gentle slope towards the Bay of Bengal in the east. It is limited on the north by the Nandalar and on the south-east by the Vettar. The group of rocks known as Cuddalore formations is met with in the area contiguous to Karaikal region in Nagappattinam District.\n\nKaraikal is situated on the east coast of India, near latitude 11 N in the deltaic region of the Cauveri, experiences tropical maritime type of climate with small daily range of temperature and moderate rainfall. Karaikal has an annual average rainfall of about 126 cm. 68 percent of which occurs during October to December. The amount of rainfall during the south-west monsoon period is small, being less than 20 per cent of the annual. November is the rainiest month, accounting for about a third of the annual total. The range of variation of annual rainfall is wide.\n\nDecember and January are the coolest months with the maximum at about 28 C and the minimum at about 23 C°. Minimum temperature as low as 16 C° may sometimes be recorded. The diurnal ranges of temperature are generally small throughout the year, being highest (about 10 C°) in May and June, and the least (about 5 C°) during November to February.\n\nAmong the littoral species tolerating a certain amount of salinity in the soil and in the water, the following five are the most common and remarkable ones: \"Excoecaria\" \"agallocha L\" (Tam. Tillai), \"Clerodendrum inerme Gaertn.\" (Tam. Sangankuppi), \"Acanthus ilicifolius L.\" (Tam. Kaludai Mulli), \"Solanum\" \"trilobatum L\" (Tam. Tudulai), \"Pandanus tectorius Sol.\" (Tam. Talai). The trees grown in the area is Palmyra palm, Babul tree, Samutirappalai, Pongam oil tree, Wild date palm.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census Karaikal district has a population of 200,314, roughly equal to the nation of Samoa. This gives it a ranking of 589th in India (out of a total of 640). The district has a population density of . Its population growth rate over the decade 2001-2011 was 17.29%. Karaikal has a sex ratio of 1048 females for every 1000 males, and a literacy rate of 87.83%. \n\nTamil is the principal language spoken and Tamils are the predominant linguistic group in the district. Considerable amount of Sri Lankan Tamils are found in the pockets of Karaikal.\n\nHindus formed the majority of the population at 75.41% of the population followed by Christians at 10.70%, Muslims at 6.46% and others at 0.12%.\n\nIts calm beaches are the prime tourist attraction of Karaikal. Several tourist destinations that lie in neighbouring Tamil Nadu are within easy distance of Karaikal. These include the world-famous temple of\n\n\n\nTen kilometres to the North of Karikal is the former Dutch colony of Tranquebar (Tharangambadi).\n\nThe nearest airport is in Trichy (Trichirapalli). Sri Lankan Airlines service connects Tiruchirapalli with Colombo and proposed service with Jaffna. Karaikal Airport is being constructed and will be completed by 2018. It will be the first airport in the country to be built entirely with private capital.\n\nRailway Station Karaikal and railway station at Nagore (15 km from Karaikal).\n\nMany buses operate in this district. They connect tourist places like Tirunallar, Nagore, Nagapattinam, Velankanni, Mayiladuthurai and Thiruvarur in Tamil Nadu State. Many private and public buses with registration of Puducherry union territory and Tamil Nadu state are plying in this region. Long-distance buses operated by Tamil Nadu government from Nagapattinam to Chennai via Pondicherry, pass through this place. Government-owned bus services and Pondicherry Transport & Tourism Development Corporation (PT&TDC) now known as Puducherry Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) also runs long distance bus services between Karaikal and Pondicherry\n\n\nKaraikal Port Private Limited (KPPL), a private port developed by the Chennai-based MARG Limited, became operational in April 2009. The port is located on the Eastern coast of India at keezhavanjore village in Karaikal District of Puducherry, around 300 km along the coast south of Chennai Port and around 360 km along the coast north of Tuticorin Port. The shoreline of the port is between 10o 50’56’’ N and 10o 49’44’’ N.\n\nLoading and unloading of goods are usually carried on with the help of boats whenever water level is high in the river. The goods are brought to the warehouses without difficulty. There are storage facilities in the warehouses situated not far from \"Arasalar\" and \"Vanjiar\". However, in view of existence of a port in Nagapattinam, this minor port does not have much importance.\n\nKaraikal is known all over the country for its unique and the only temple devoted to the Lord Saneeswara (Lord Saturn) at Thirunallar. Those who are troubled by vicissitudes in life and wish bright future do spare their time to pay obeisance to the Lord Saturn. The Sani Peyarchi festival is the \"Kumb Mela of Pondicherry\" attracting lakhs of devotees.\n\nAlthough situated within Karaikal municipality, Karaikal Ammayar temple which holds the annual 'Mangani\" festival which is a well attended 'Mela', as also Kandoori festival celebrated by Karaikal Darga and the Feast of Our Lady of Lourdes celebrated by Our Lady of Lourdes Church.\n\n\nThis annual festival takes place on the full moon day of the Tamil month of Masi (Between February and March). Deities from as many temples in and around Karaikal are brought in ceremonial processions to the seashore for a symbolic immersion ceremony. Thousands of people go to the seashore to have a dip in the sea which is said to wash away one's sins. The most important deity, which takes part in the festival, is Sowriraja Perumal of Thirukannapuram village in Tamil Nadu area. The saying goes that Sowriraja Perumal married a fishermen community woman and hence the moment the deity enters Tirumalairayan-pattinam village of Tirumalairayanpattinam\ncommune for the festival, the fishermen take charge of the deity and charges are replaced after the festival is completed i.e. after the holy bath. This festival is held with all pomp and glory although it cannot be compared to the degree of celebration in Pondicherry.\n\n\nThree or four times in a year, local temples conclude their annual festivals with hundreds of men, women and children walking on fire for fulfilment of their vows.\n\nKandoori, a popular Muslim festival, is held at Mastan Syed Dawood\nDargah in Karaikal. It is celebrated in honor of Syed\nDawood, a Sufi saint who came to India in search of his spiritual\nguide, Halareth Syed Ahamed Kalkhel Diwan Oliulla, and spent his last\nyears in Karaikal.Kandoori Festival is held annually and is\nmarked by processions, music and dance.\n\nUnmaintained open drainage system around the town causing foul stink and source for mosquitoes breeding. Solid wastes scattered around roads which makes municipality's existence a big question.\n\n", "id": "7736571", "categories": ["Districts of Puducherry", "Proposed states and territories of India", "Karaikal district"], "title": "Karaikal district"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736583", "text": "1992 NBA playoffs\n\nThe 1992 NBA playoffs was the postseason tournament following the National Basketball Association's 1991-92 season. The tournament concluded with the Eastern Conference champion Chicago Bulls defeating the Western Conference champion Portland Trail Blazers 4 games to 2 in the NBA Finals. Michael Jordan was named NBA Finals MVP for the second straight year.\n\nThe Blazers won their second Western Conference title in the past three years, third overall in franchise history, behind the leadership of Clyde Drexler.\n\nThe Jazz made the Western Conference Finals for the first time in franchise history. They returned in 1994 and 1996 before finally breaking through in 1997.\n\nThe fourth-year Miami Heat became the first of the 1988 and 1989 expansion teams to make the playoffs, though they were swept in the first round by the Bulls. In 2006, the Heat would become the first of these teams to win the NBA title.\n\nThis was the first year since 1987 that the Bulls and Pistons did not meet in the playoffs. They did not meet again until 2007.\n\nThe Clippers made it to the playoffs for the first time since 1976, when they were the Buffalo Braves.\n\nDespite Magic Johnson's stunning retirement due to testing HIV positive prior to the start of the season, the Los Angeles Lakers still managed to make their 16th straight NBA playoff appearance. It was their first appearance since 1979 without Johnson, Michael Cooper, or Kareem Abdul-Jabbar.\n\nTwo games were postponed due to the Los Angeles riots following the Rodney King verdict, one being the Trail Blazers at the Lakers and the other was the Jazz at the Clippers. For safety purposes, both the Lakers and Clippers decided to move their home games to a nearby alternate venue; the Lakers played at the Thomas & Mack Center in Las Vegas, Nevada (later host to the 2007 NBA All-Star Game) for Game 4, the Clippers at Anaheim Convention Center in Anaheim, California for Game 4 (the Clippers returned to Anaheim at Arrowhead Pond in 1994 as an alternate venue and played there until 1999 whenever the Los Angeles Memorial Sports Arena was unavailable).\n\nGame 4 of the Blazers-Suns series was the last game ever played at the Arizona Veterans Memorial Coliseum. It was a long game which lasted two overtimes and broke the NBA's playoff game record for points scored in one game, the Trail Blazers outlasting the Suns by a score of 153-151.\n\nThe Celtics' first round sweep of the Pacers would be their last playoff series win until 2002. After losing in the second round to Cleveland, Larry Bird retired after 13 seasons. As for the Cavs, it was their first Conference Finals appearance since 1976, but fell to the Bulls in 6 games. They would not return again until 2007.\n\n\n\nChampion: Portland Trail Blazers\n\n\n(1) Portland Trail Blazers vs. (8) Los Angeles Lakers: \"Blazers win series 3–1\"\n\n(*) Due to 1992 Los Angeles riots\n\nThis was the sixth playoff meeting between these two teams, with the Lakers winning four of the first five meetings.\n(2) Utah Jazz vs. (7) Los Angeles Clippers: \"Jazz win series 3–2\"\n\n(*) Due to 1992 Los Angeles riots\n\nThis was the first playoff meeting between the Clippers and the Jazz.\n\n(3) Golden State Warriors vs. (6) Seattle SuperSonics: \"SuperSonics win series 3–1\"\n\nThis was the second playoff meeting between these two teams, with the Warriors winning the first meeting.\n(4) Phoenix Suns vs. (5) San Antonio Spurs: \"Suns win series 3–0\"\n\nThis was the first playoff meeting between the Suns and the Spurs.\n\n\n(1) Portland Trail Blazers vs. (4) Phoenix Suns: \"Blazers win series 4–1\"\n\nThis was the fourth playoff meeting between these two teams, with the Suns winning two of the first three meetings.\n(2) Utah Jazz vs. (6) Seattle SuperSonics: \"Jazz win series 4–1\"\n\nThis was the first playoff meeting between the SuperSonics and the Jazz.\n\n\n(1) Portland Trail Blazers vs. (2) Utah Jazz: \"Blazers win series 4–2\"\n\nThis was the third playoff meeting between these two teams, with each team winning one series apiece.\n\nChampion: Chicago Bulls\n\n\n(1) Chicago Bulls vs. (8) Miami Heat: \"Bulls win series 3–0\"\nThis was the first playoff meeting between the Bulls and the Heat.\n\n(2) Boston Celtics vs. (7) Indiana Pacers: \"Celtics win series 3–0\"\n\nThis was the second playoff meeting between these two teams, with the Celtics winning the first meeting.\n(3) Cleveland Cavaliers vs. (6) New Jersey Nets: \"Cavaliers win series 3–1\"\n\nThis was the first playoff meeting between the Cavaliers and the Nets.\n\n(4) New York Knicks vs. (5) Detroit Pistons: \"Knicks win series 3–2\"\n\nThis was the third playoff meeting between these two teams, with each team winning one series apiece.\n\n(1) Chicago Bulls vs. (4) New York Knicks: \"Bulls win series 4–3\"\n\nThis was the fourth playoff meeting between these two teams, with the Bulls winning the first three meetings.\n(2) Boston Celtics vs. (3) Cleveland Cavaliers: \"Cavaliers win series 4–3\"\n\nThis was the third playoff meeting between these two teams, with the Celtics winning the first two meetings.\n\n(1) Chicago Bulls vs. (3) Cleveland Cavaliers: \"Bulls win series 4–2\"\n\nThis was the third playoff meeting between these two teams, with the Bulls winning the first two meetings.\n(1) Chicago Bulls vs. (1) Portland Trail Blazers: \"Bulls win series 4–2\"\n\nThis was the second playoff meeting between these two teams, with the Trail Blazers winning the first meeting.\n", "id": "7736583", "categories": ["1991–92 NBA season", "GMA Network television specials", "National Basketball Association playoffs", "Sports in Portland, Oregon"], "title": "1992 NBA playoffs"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736604", "text": "Woodbridge, California\n\nWoodbridge is a census-designated place in San Joaquin County, California. Woodbridge sits at an elevation of . The 2010 United States census reported Woodbridge's population was 3,984. Founded in the 1850s, the town is listed as a California Historical Landmark.\n\nWoodbridge is located on the northwest side of the city of Lodi, along the banks of the Mokelumne River. Prior to the 2010 census, it was split between the CDPs of North Woodbridge and South Woodbridge and occupies the zip code 95258. It is most known for being in California's San Joaquin Valley winegrowing region.\n\nWoodbridge was founded in 1852 by Jeremiah H. Woods and Alexander McQueen, who established a ferry across the Mokelumne River. The ferry enabled a new road to be routed between Stockton and Sacramento. In 1858 they built a wooden bridge at the site of the ferry which became known as Woods' Bridge, from which the community drew its name. Woods hoped that the settlement would grow larger than Stockton, and even hoped to form a separate county, Mokelumne County, with Woodbridge as the seat. In 1867, however, the railroad chose to bypass Woodbridge and lay tracks through neighboring Lodi instead.\n\nWoodbridge then became an educational center, with the Woodbridge Seminary and San Joaquin Valley College both opening doors in 1879. The college closed in 1897 due to declining enrollment.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP covers an area of 3.1 square miles (8.1 km²), 3.0 square miles (7.8 km²) of which is land, 0.1 square miles (0.3 km²) of it (3.42%) water.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Woodbridge had a population of 3,984. The population density was 1,277.1 people per square mile (493.1/km²). The racial makeup of Woodbridge was 2,997 (75.2%) White, 15 (0.4%) African American, 46 (1.2%) Native American, 201 (5.0%) Asian, 7 (0.2%) Pacific Islander, 582 (14.6%) from other races, and 136 (3.4%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1,234 persons (31.0%).\n\nThe Census reported that 3,969 people (99.6% of the population) lived in households, 15 (0.4%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 1,430 households, out of which 492 (34.4%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 916 (64.1%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 153 (10.7%) had a female householder with no husband present, 68 (4.8%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 58 (4.1%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 8 (0.6%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 237 households (16.6%) were made up of individuals and 96 (6.7%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.78. There were 1,137 families (79.5% of all households); the average family size was 3.10.\n\nThe population was spread out with 965 people (24.2%) under the age of 18, 323 people (8.1%) aged 18 to 24, 826 people (20.7%) aged 25 to 44, 1,317 people (33.1%) aged 45 to 64, and 553 people (13.9%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 42.6 years. For every 100 females, there were 97.2 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 95.7 males.\n\nThere were 1,487 housing units at an average density of 476.7 per square mile (184.0/km²), of which 1,082 (75.7%) were owner-occupied, and 348 (24.3%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 1.2%; the rental vacancy rate was 4.1%. 2,790 people (70.0% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 1,179 people (29.6%) lived in rental housing units.\n\n", "id": "7736604", "categories": ["Census-designated places in San Joaquin County, California"], "title": "Woodbridge, California"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736606", "text": "We Came for the Dead!!!\n\nWe Came for the Dead!!! is Ghoul's debut album. It was released on January 12, 2002, by Razorback Records. The lyrics in this album are based on the stories of the three band members (Dissector joined Ghoul after the release of \"We Came for the Dead!!!\"), as well as the introduction of their conspirator, Mr. Fang.\n\n", "id": "7736606", "categories": ["Ghoul (band) albums", "2002 albums"], "title": "We Came for the Dead!!!"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736616", "text": "Yves Fortier (geologist)\n\nYves Oscar Fortier, OC, FRSC (August 17, 1914 – August 19, 2014) was a Canadian geologist. He was the director of the Geological Survey of Canada from 1964 to 1973. He led expeditions to the Canadian Arctic in the 1950s and 1960s which identified significant potential oil and gas resources. He died at the age of 100 on August 19, 2014.\n\n\n", "id": "7736616", "categories": ["Canadian geologists", "Logan Medal recipients", "Canadian explorers", "1914 births", "Fellows of the Royal Society of Canada", "Canadian centenarians", "Massey Medal recipients", "Canadian geophysicists", "Geological Survey of Canada personnel", "Officers of the Order of Canada", "2014 deaths"], "title": "Yves Fortier (geologist)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736621", "text": "Yves Fortier\n\nYves Fortier may refer to:\n", "id": "7736621", "categories": [], "title": "Yves Fortier"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736635", "text": "Hack (falconry)\n\nHacking is a training method that helps young falcons reach their hunting potential by giving them exercise and experience. This technique is used to prepare the falcon to become an independent hunter. The sequence of the procedure includes captivity, releasing, flight, and either the falcon will be recaptured for falconry or released into the wild. This has also been adapted to other raptor species to preserve the population. Generally, falconers agree that hacked falcons are better and more preferred in the field. Hacking is beneficial, not only for the falconers, but for the bird itself and the species; however, there are some criticism and restrictions that come along with this method.\n\nHacking sites are usually large tracts of land. These areas have to be similar to the natural surroundings of a wild nest. The young raptors are put in a “hack box,” boxes that contain a nest inside that protect them from predators and are usually placed on a high site, e.g. cliffs, atop poles. Eggs are either captive bred or taken from wild nests and the chicks are placed in the boxes a couple of weeks before they reach their fledge age of six weeks. Until then, the birds are closely looked after and provided food without too much human contact.\n\nThe box is open after they have been in there for about 5 to 10 days, which gives them the freedom to do what they want around the box. However, they are not ready to fly yet. At this point they can climb down from their box, flap their wings to get a feel for the wind and exercise their muscles. Just as they would in the wild, the young stay close to the safe area.\n\nThe time until the first flight is taken should take about 3 days after the hack box is open, which should be a distance around a few dozen feet. Afterwards, the young start to fly further away for a longer span. Hacking has an indefinite time period because it depends on the weather conditions and the personality of the bird. At this flying stage, the raptors learn how to self-hunt but are still fed and watched over. Males are more likely to hunt independently before females do.\n\nOnce the falcons are confident and independent they are either allowed to migrate into the wild, recaptured for falconry and trained further i.e. with a lure for sport, or released into the wild. If the purpose of the hack is to prepare the raptor to be in the wild then the reserve hopes that the falcons will come back in a few years to nest there.\n\n\n\nFalconry has been a hunting sport since 2000 BC originating in ancient China and Egypt and since then the technique of hacking has been used and evolved. The term “hacking,” however, was not coined until the Elizabethan era. During that period, falconers brought a “hack,” an old English word for a type of wagon, to a hilltop and placed young falcons upon it when they still did not know how to fly yet.\n\nThere were over three-hundred breeding pairs of peregrine falcons before World War II in eastern United States. In the late 1940s, a large, abrupt decline of prey birds came about. On top of the pre-WWII causes of gradual decrease of population (e.g. shooting of birds, egg collecting, predators, etc.), the main component to the downfall was the popular use of an insecticide called DDT. The product would be carried in the prey and kill the birds off and DDE, the by-product, would accumulate in a female’s body causing the eggs produced by her to become fragile. Because of this disruption, Peregrine falcons were officially on the federal endangered species list in 1970. Four years later, a program to restore the bird’s population started in which they were bred in captivity. Breeders adapted the hacking technique so that the falcons and other endangered raptors could become independent once released into the wild. Additional hacking could even be conducted in urban areas when old nests, or eyries, were found atop buildings.\n\nCurrently there are programs and organizations that continue to successfully release falcons into the wild.\n", "id": "7736635", "categories": [], "title": "Hack (falconry)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736642", "text": "Inglenook Community High School\n\nInglenook Community High School is a Toronto public high school which offers grade 10, 11, and 12 level courses. It is housed in an historical building designed by William George Storm in Corktown, in downtown Toronto, Ontario. The school has, on average, one hundred students and six teachers. It is located in the oldest continually-operated school building of the Toronto District School Board.\n\nIn 1994, Inglenook Community High School was named an exemplary school by the Canadian Education Association. The school features a family-like atmosphere and a focus on the community: teachers, students, and parents are all involved in school decisions.\n\nIn 1985 archaeologists digging on the school grounds uncovered fascinating clues regarding Toronto’s history as a terminus of the Underground Railroad. Between 1834 and 1890 this site was the home of Lucie and Thornton Blackburn, refugee former slaves from Kentucky who started Toronto’s first taxicab company.\n\nTwin plaques have been erected at this site and one in Louisville, KY.\n\nInglenook is located in the oldest continually-operated school building in the Toronto District School Board. Originally Sackville Street School, it was designed by William G. Storm. The first principal of Sackville Street School (which replaced Palace Street School at the corner of Front and Cherry Streets) was Georgina Stanley Riches, who served from 1887 to 1912. At one time the school enrolled 269 students. In 1974, Sackville Street School closed and the building became home to both Inglenook Community High School and an aboriginal learning centre, which soon moved out. The school is said to be haunted.\n\nInglenook prides itself on creating an environment ready to adapt to the specific needs of individual students enrolled each year.\n\nInglenook gives more power to the student body than the average Toronto school. The Committee on Evaluations, Academic Standards and Admissions (CEASA) is the school's disciplinary body. If corrective measures are required, two students and teachers meet with the pupils involved and attempt to rectify the situation. There are no detentions and no letters home. Students are responsible for attendance and schoolwork, which are mandatory.\n\nInglenook offers a program called Outreach, typically shortened to \"Reach,\" which is completed on Wednesdays in lieu of traditional courses. The other four schooldays each have a double period to make up for Wednesday's lost time. In Outreach, the student is expected to volunteer in the community for three hours a week. They then relate this experience to one of their academic courses by doing a tie-in project which receives a mark included in the final course grade.\n\nAfter the first semester, students can also perform an equivalent of Outreach, known as Inreach. This is still affiliated with a specific course, and a tie-in project is still completed, but instead of performing volunteer work the student can pursue an interest such as learning to paint, acquiring a new language, or writing a play.\n\nInglenook features an open-access kitchen, which is cleaned (along with dishes from the classrooms and student lounge) by two hoppers after classes each day. Hoppers are two students who are chosen for duty on any particular day, and as it is rotational, each student will only have to clean once per semester.\n\nThe school features a public art space named the \"Inglenook Gallery\". There is also a student lounge with ample furniture and books, and most of the classrooms contain couches.\n\n\n", "id": "7736642", "categories": ["High schools in Toronto", "Underground Railroad locations"], "title": "Inglenook Community High School"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736648", "text": "Senn retractor\n\nSenn retractors are double ended retractors used in surgical procedures. One end is typically L shaped, and the other has three bent prongs. The pronged ends come in sharp and dull tips. They are regularly used in hand and foot surgeries. The Senn retractor design was first described in the literature by Dr. Nicholas Senn, head of surgery at Rush Medical College.\n", "id": "7736648", "categories": ["Surgical instruments"], "title": "Senn retractor"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736655", "text": "Fujiya &amp; Miyagi\n\nFujiya & Miyagi are a British group formed in Brighton, East Sussex in 2000. The current line-up consists of David Best (vocals and guitar), Stephen Lewis (synths and vocals), Ed Chivers (drums), Ben Adamo & Ben Farestuedt (bass and vocals). They have released seven studio albums: Electro Karaoke in the Negative Style\" (2002), Transparent Things\" (2006), Lightbulbs\" (2008), Ventriloquizzing\" (2011), Artificial Sweeteners\" (2014), Fujiya & Miyagi\" (2017), and \"Different Blades from the Same Pair of Scissors\" (2017). They are currently signed to Impossible Objects of Desire worldwide.\n\nThe first several years after the band's formation were spent in relative obscurity; however, they began to see a drastic spike in popularity between 2003 and 2006, thanks in large part to favorable reviews from prominent music publications such as \"NME\" and Pitchfork Media.\n\nThe band were also the subject of an episode of the MTV2 documentary series \"This is Our Music\" in 2006. Their song \"Uh\" was also featured in an episode of \"Breaking Bad\" and an episode of British sci-fi series \"Misfits\". \"Collarbone\" was featured on an episode of the US adaptation of the British teen drama \"Skins\", while \"Vagaries of Fashion\" was featured on an episode of \"How To Get Away With Murder\".\n\n\n\nThe former part of the band's name comes from the Fujiya brand of record players, while the latter is due to Mr Miyagi from The Karate Kid.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7736655", "categories": ["English electronica musicians", "English electronic music groups"], "title": "Fujiya &amp; Miyagi"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736656", "text": "Watering hole\n\nWatering hole may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7736656", "categories": [], "title": "Watering hole"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736661", "text": "Tosinê Reşîd\n\nTosinê Reşîd (also Tosinê Reşît), (born 1941), is a contemporary Yazidi writer, poet and playwright. He was born in the village of Koorakand (Kûrekend) in Armenia. He studied physics and chemistry at the Pedagogical Institute and graduated in 1964. After a few years of working as a teacher, he continued his studies in 1970 and received his PhD in chemistry in 1975. In the same year, he published his first book entitled \"Kilamê Rê\" (Word of the Way). During the 1970s, around 200 of his articles were used under the name of \"Kurdish Encyclopaedia\" in cultural programs of Radio Yerevan.\nHe published his first play based on the well known Kurdish folkloric epic \"Siyabend û Xecê\" in 1984. In 1993, he left Armenia and settled in Melbourne, Australia.\n\n\n", "id": "7736661", "categories": ["Living people", "Armenian Yazidis", "Armenian emigrants to Australia", "1941 births", "Kurdish-language writers"], "title": "Tosinê Reşîd"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736692", "text": "IWG plc\n\nIWG plc, formerly Regus, is a multinational corporation that provides serviced offices, virtual offices, meeting rooms, and videoconferencing to clients on a contract basis. Founded in Brussels, Belgium in 1989, the business is incorporated in Saint Helier, Jersey. It is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index. \n\nIn 1989 while on a business trip to Brussels, English entrepreneur Mark Dixon noted the lack of office space available to travelling business people; they were often forced to work from hotels. He identified a need for office space that was maintained, staffed, and available for companies to use on a flexible basis and went on to found his first business centre under the name \"Regus\" in Brussels. In 1994 Regus entered Latin America with a center in São Paulo and Asia with its first center in Beijing. The company completed a successful IPO on the London Stock Exchange in 2000.\n\nIn 2001 it acquired \"Stratis Business Centers\", a U.S.-based network of franchised business centers, and expanded into the United States market. Later in 2001 the Regus business center on the 93rd floor of South Tower at the World Trade Center was destroyed during the 9/11 attacks; five employees lost their lives. The company was criticized for a lack of response to the victims' families, though a Regus official said they had made \"proactive outreach to each and every family of the team members who are missing.\"\n\nIn 2002 the company sold a controlling stake (58%) of its cornerstone UK business to Rex 2002 Limited, a company created by the private equity firm Alchemy Partners. This move raised £51 million for the company, which had been facing severe financial difficulties. In 2003 Regus filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection for its US business, which had been struggling in the wake of the dot-com bubble. Less than a year later it took its US business out of Chapter 11 after restructuring, financed by its share of the profitable UK business.\n\nThe company acquired \"HQ Global Workplaces\", a global workplace provider based in the U.S. in 2004. It re-acquired the Regus UK business in 2006 for £88 million, marking the end of a dramatic recovery from the company's near collapse in 2002. The company went on to acquire \"Laptop Lane\", a chain of American airport business centers, later that year. In 2006 the company entered partnerships with Air France-KLM and American Airlines for preferred access for business travellers and in 2007 it entered a partnership with American Express for preferred access for their Business Platinum cardholders.\n\nIn 2007 Regus further expanded its global position, opening business centers in Bulgaria, Jordan, Kenya and Qatar. In June 2008 Regus introduced Businessworld, a multi-level membership service which allows users flexible access to Regus services in any Regus location worldwide, taking advantage of the company's international scale. It is aimed at clients who travel frequently. Effective October 14, 2008, Regus Group plc became Regus plc. Regus plc was created as a holding company for Regus Group plc, in order to establish the company's headquarters in Luxembourg and its registered office in Jersey. Regus has maintained a policy of expansion, opening new business centers. The company has also renegotiated some leasing agreements with property owners in the UK to save money, warning owners that the vehicles holding the leases could go into administration; this has angered the British property industry.\nOn 5 July 2012 UK Prime Minister David Cameron announced that Regus would provide 30,000 young entrepreneurs across England with access to its global network of business lounges and administrative support, complementing the Government's StartUp Loans scheme managed by James Caan. On 19 February 2013 Regus took control of MWB BE, the UK's second largest serviced office provider with a £65.6m cash bid. In 2013 Regus opened in its 100th country, Nepal, and its 1,500th centre in Pune, India. In 2014 Regus opened its 2,300th business centre in Boulder, Colorado and opened in 50 new towns and cities in Q1 alone. It also signed deals with Heathrow Airport and Gatwick Airport, as well as the Singapore government.\n\nIn December 2016, under a scheme of arrangement, the company established a new holding company IWG (International Workplace Group) and announced its intention to move its base outside the European Union referring to the \"increasingly complex legislative environment\".\n\nThe company provides serviced offices, virtual offices, meeting rooms, and videoconferencing to clients on a contract basis. It operates in 106 countries with more than 2,300 business centers, making it the world's largest provider of flexible workspace. It is also one of the sponsors of Fair Spend, and Mars One, a Dutch private spaceflight project. It also hosts Britain First at their Belfast office by hosting Britannia Campaigning, the company behind Britain First and owned by Paul Golding.\n\n", "id": "7736692", "categories": ["Companies established in 1989", "Companies listed on the London Stock Exchange", "Companies based in Luxembourg City", "Companies that filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2003"], "title": "IWG plc"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736701", "text": "Spyboy (album)\n\nSpyboy is a 1998 live album by Emmylou Harris and her backing band, Spyboy, which she formed for a tour to perform songs from her 1995 career-redefining album, \"Wrecking Ball\". Taking a stripped-down approach, Harris is backed by a trio comprising country singer-songwriter Buddy Miller on guitar and New Orleans musicians Daryl Johnson on bass and Brady Blade on drums. Along with songs from \"Wrecking Ball\", such as \"Where Will I Be\" and \"Deeper Well\", Harris performs other songs from earlier in her career, such as \"Born to Run\" from \"Cimarron\", \"Love Hurts\", which she first performed with Gram Parsons, \"I Ain't Living Long Like This\" from \"Quarter Moon in a Ten Cent Town\" and her ode to Parsons, \"Boulder to Birmingham\", from her 1975 debut album, \"Pieces of the Sky\". The album is currently out of print.\n\n\n", "id": "7736701", "categories": ["Emmylou Harris live albums"], "title": "Spyboy (album)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736702", "text": "Nilaihah Records\n\nNilaihah Records is an American independent record label based in Columbus, Ohio. It was founded in 1999 by Kristy Venrick of The Azoic, after Oneiroid Psychosis asked her to release their next album. Though she did not have a record label at the time, Oneiroid Psychosis was impressed by Kristy's success at promoting her own band. After considering the proposal, a year later, Kristy agreed and decided to begin Nilaihah Records. \n\nSince then, the label has grown considerably, signing other notable acts spanning a variety of electronic music styles, such as Unheilig, The Azoic, and Frozen Plasma. The label formed a partnership with the German label Infacted, serving as the North American outlet for European bands like Ad Inferna, XP8, NamNamBulu, Conetik, Endanger, and Liquid Divine, signing them to distribution deals. The label had a successful joint venture with Infacted on \"Muscle and Hate\", a tribute to Nitzer Ebb featuring members of XP8 and Icon of Coil. Nilaihah Records has also released several other notable bands. \n\nThe label maintains an extensive mailorder catalog of its own releases and the recordings of others. It provides its music in legal digital download sites.\n\nNilaihah (pronounced \"nil-EYE-ah\") is an old English word meaning \"poetics of the fallen\", and is named after the opening track of The Azoic's 1998 album \"Where Broken Angels Lie\".\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7736702", "categories": ["Record labels established in 1999", "Electronic music record labels", "American independent record labels", "Industrial record labels"], "title": "Nilaihah Records"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736703", "text": "Shire of Dumbleyung\n\nThe Shire of Dumbleyung is a local government area in the Wheatbelt region of Western Australia, about east of Wagin and about southeast of Perth, the state capital. The Shire covers an area of , and is involved in grain and livestock production and various biodiversity industries including cereals, summer crops, oil mallees, yabbies, emus, poultry and trout. Its seat of government is the town of Dumbleyung.\n\nOn 1 October 1909, the Dumbleyung Road District was created. On 1 July 1961, it became a Shire following the enactment of the \"Local Government Act 1960\".\n\nAs of 3 May 2003, the shire has been divided into 4 wards.\n\n\nPreviously, there were 5 wards: Central (Dumbleyung), North (Dongolocking), South (Datatine), Merilup and Kukerin.\n\n", "id": "7736703", "categories": [], "title": "Shire of Dumbleyung"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736704", "text": "Kabanga, Kigoma Region\n\nKabanga is one of a number of towns in Tanzania with this name. This is the one in Kigoma Region.\n\nYou can get to Kabanga travelling first to the city of Kigoma by airplane or railway from Dar es Salaam. Then by road, driving 90 km from Kigoma to Kasulu and 7 km more from Kasulu to Kabanga village.\n\n", "id": "7736704", "categories": ["Populated places in Kigoma Region"], "title": "Kabanga, Kigoma Region"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736707", "text": "Die (integrated circuit)\n\nA die, in the context of integrated circuits, is a small block of semiconducting material on which a given functional circuit is fabricated. Typically, integrated circuits are produced in large batches on a single wafer of electronic-grade silicon (EGS) or other semiconductor (such as GaAs) through processes such as photolithography. The wafer is cut (diced) into many pieces, each containing one copy of the circuit. Each of these pieces is called a die.\n\nThere are three commonly used plural forms: \"dice\", \"dies\" and \"die\". To simplify handling and integration onto a printed circuit board, most dice are packaged in various forms.\n\nMost dies are composed of silicon and used for integrated circuits. The process begins with the production of monocrystalline silicon ingots. These ingots are then sliced into disks with a diameter of up to 300mm. These wafers are then polished to a mirror finish before going through photolithography. In many steps the transistors are manufactured and connected with metal interconnect layers. These prepared wafers then go through wafer testing to test their functionality. The wafers are then sliced and sorted to filter out the faulty dies. Functional dies are then packaged and the completed integrated circuit is ready to be shipped.\n\nA die can host many types of circuits. One common use case of an integrated circuit die is in the form of a Central Processing Unit (CPU). Through advances in modern technology, the size of the transistor within the die has shrunk exponentially, following Moore's Law. Other uses for dies can range from LED lighting to power semiconductor devices.\n\n\n", "id": "7736707", "categories": [], "title": "Die (integrated circuit)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736716", "text": "Cyclic ADP-ribose\n\nCyclic ADP Ribose, frequently abbreviated as cADPR, is a cyclic adenine nucleotide (like cAMP) with two phosphate groups present on 5' OH of the adenosine (like ADP), further connected to another ribose at the 5' position, which, in turn, closes the cycle by glycosidic bonding to the nitrogen 1 (N) of the same adenine base (whose position N has the glycosidic bond to the other ribose). The N-glycosidic bond to adenine is what distinguishes cADPR from ADP-ribose (ADPR), the non-cyclic analog. cADPR is produced from nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) by ADP-ribosyl cyclases () as part of a second messenger system.\n\ncADPR is a cellular messenger for calcium signaling. It stimulates calcium-induced calcium release at lower cytosolic concentrations of Ca. Primary target of cADPR is the ER Ca2+ uptake mechanism. Potentiation of Ca2+ release by cADPR is mediated by increased accumulation of Ca2+ in the SR.\n\ncADPR and ADPR are synthesized from NAD by the bifunctional ectoenzymes of the CD38 family (also includes the GPI-anchored CD157 and the specific, monofunctional ADP ribosyl cyclase of the mollusc \"Aplysia\"). The same enzymes are also capable of hydrolyzing cADPR to ADPR. Catalysis proceeds via a covalently bound intermediate. The hydrolysis reaction is inhibited by ATP, and cADPR may accumulate. Synthesis and degradation of cADPR by enzymes of the CD38 family involve, respectively, the formation and the hydrolysis of the N-glycosidic bond. In 2009, the first enzyme able to hydrolyze the phosphoanhydride linkage of cADPR, i.e. the one between the two phosphate groups, has been reported.\n\n\n", "id": "7736716", "categories": ["Nucleotides"], "title": "Cyclic ADP-ribose"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736726", "text": "Mill Bluff State Park\n\nMill Bluff State Park is a state park in west-central Wisconsin, United States. It is located in eastern Monroe and western Juneau counties, near the village of Camp Douglas. A unit of the Ice Age National Scientific Reserve, the park protects several prominent sandstone bluffs to high that formed as sea stacks 12,000 years ago in Glacial Lake Wisconsin. As a result, these bluffs are steep and angular, dissimilar to the rounded terrain more typical of the eastern half of the United States. The bluffs served as landmarks to both early pioneers and travelers today on Interstate 90/94, which passes through the park.\n\nThere are ten named bluffs in the park. Mill Bluff, high, is between the interstate and U.S. Route 12. The park office is at its foot, and the campground is just to the west. Bee Bluff, although smaller and only high, is the most visible bluff from the interstate, as it stands adjacent to the westbound lanes. To the north is Camels Bluff, two separate outcroppings that together resemble the humps of a camel. Nearby are Devil's Monument and a high pinnacle called Cleopatra's Needle. The other, less accessible bluffs are Round Bluff and Sugar Bowl Bluff to the south, Wildcat Bluff and Bear Bluff to the north, and Long Bluff to the northeast. Also in the northeast is Ragged Rock, an tall former bluff whose protective cap was worn away and is eroding into a conical mound.\n\nThe bluffs in the park, and others nearby, are formed of Late Cambrian sandstone. Stratigraphically, the stone of the bluffs is part of the Galesville Member of the Dresbach Group. Sandstone from the Ironton Member of the Franconia Formation, which is more solidly concreted, tops each bluff. This capping layer helped protect the softer stone below it from erosion. Similar structures elsewhere in Wisconsin would have been bulldozed away by glaciers, but these bluffs lie in the Driftless Area; that part of the American Midwest which was never glaciated. The bluffs are all outliers of the Franconia Cuesta to the south.\n\nDuring the last ice age a tongue of ice dammed the Wisconsin River, causing the water to back up into Glacial Lake Wisconsin. It is estimated that the lake was about deep in this area, so the taller bluffs became islands while the shorter ones would have been entirely underwater. For the 3000 years of the lake's existence waves eroded the edges of the bluffs, giving them their distinctive steep sides. Thus in a geological sense the bluffs are sea stacks because they formed in a body of water. In practice the larger formations are described as mesas, the medium-sized ones as buttes, and the smallest as a pinnacle.\n\nThe flat ground in the park consists of finely sorted sediments that settled to the bottom of Glacial Lake Wisconsin. Glacial erratics have been found on the former lakebed, which are explained as rocks which were embedded in icebergs that melted as they were floating in the lake.\n\nThe park is mostly forested, with northern pin oak, jack pine, red pine, eastern white pine, and white oak dominant.\n\nSeveral of the bluffs bear 400-year-old petroglyphs shaped like bird tracks, contemporaneous with the Roche-a-Cri Petroglyphs in Roche-a-Cri State Park.\n\nThe diaries and journals of west-bound settlers often mention these bluffs. A sawmill was operated in the vicinity, after which Mill Bluff was named.\n\nMill Bluff and a small area at its foot was proclaimed a state park on August 13, 1936. Mill Bluff State Park was added to the Ice Age National Scientific Reserve in May 1971. The park's boundaries were expanded to include the other bluffs later. In 2002 a portion of the park containing all of the major bluffs received a further level of protection as Mill Bluff State Natural Area.\n\nMill Bluff State Park is open from May to September. Small game hunting is permitted in sections of the park from November 1 to December 15, and deer hunting during a shorter period.\n\nThe park's small campground has 21 sites, 6 with electrical hookups. Amenities are primitive, with pit toilets and no showers. Potable water is available from hand pumps.\n\nSwimming is available in a spring-fed lake south of the campground. Sand has been added to make a beach.\n\nA nature trail circles the base of Mill Bluff. 223 stone steps built by the Works Progress Administration in the 1930s lead to its top. north on County Road W (Funnel Road) is a pullout for the Camels Bluff loop trail, which passes between the two sections of Camels Bluff and leads past the base of Devils Monument and Cleopatra's Needle.\n\nBecause the bluffs are formed of soft sandstone and geologically unique, all climbing is prohibited.\n\n\n", "id": "7736726", "categories": ["Driftless Area", "Protected areas established in 1936", "Protected areas of Monroe County, Wisconsin", "Works Progress Administration in Wisconsin", "Stacks (geology)", "Ice Age National Scientific Reserve", "Protected areas of Juneau County, Wisconsin", "State parks of Wisconsin", "Rock formations of Wisconsin"], "title": "Mill Bluff State Park"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736733", "text": "Seismic source\n\nA seismic source is a device that generates controlled seismic energy used to perform both reflection and refraction seismic surveys. A seismic source can be simple, such as dynamite, or it can use more sophisticated technology, such as a specialized air gun. Seismic sources can provide single pulses or continuous sweeps of energy, generating seismic waves, which travel through a medium such as water or layers of rocks. Some of the waves then reflect and refract and are recorded by receivers, such as geophones or hydrophones.\n\nSeismic sources may be used to investigate shallow subsoil structure, for engineering site characterization, or to study deeper structures, either in the search for petroleum and mineral deposits, or to map subsurface faults or for other scientific investigations. The returning signals from the sources are detected by seismic sensors (geophones or hydrophones) in known locations relative to the position of the source. The recorded signals are then subjected to specialist processing and interpretation to yield comprehensible information about the subsurface.\n\nA seismic source signal has the following characteristics:\nThe generalized equation that shows all above properties is:\nwhere formula_2 is the maximum frequency component of the generated waveform.\n\nThe most basic seismic source is a sledge hammer, either striking the ground directly, or more commonly striking a metal plate on the ground, known as hammer and plate. Useful for seismic refraction surveys down to about 20 m below surface.\n\nExplosives most widely used as seismic sources are knows as gelatin dynamites. These dynamites are placed into three subcategories, straight gelatins in which nitroglycerin, also known as glyceryl trinitrate with the chemical formula C3H5(ONO2)3 is the active component, ammonia gelatins in which ammonia nitrite with chemical formula NH₄NO₃ as the active component, and semi gelatins in which the composition consists mostly of nitroglycerin.\n\nUpon detonation, explosives release large volumes of expanding gas very quickly, forcing great pressure to the surroundings in the form of seismic waves. \n\nUsing explosives as seismic sources has been in practice for decades because of the reliability and energy efficiency they provide. Such sources are most commonly used on land and swampy environments because of high thickness in sediments.Typical charge sizes used in the field for reflection surveys are 0.25kg to 100kg for single hole sources, 0.25kg to 250kg or more for multiple hole sources, and may reach 2500kg or more for refraction surveys.\n\nThough dynamites and other explosives are efficient seismic sources because of their reduced costs, ease of transport in difficult terrains, and lack of regular maintenance compared to other sources,the use of explosives is becoming restricted in certain areas, causing decline and increasing popularity for alternative seismic sources.\n\nFor instance, hexanitrostilbene was the main explosive fill in the \"thumper\" mortar round canisters used as part of the Apollo Lunar Active Seismic Experiments. Generally, the explosive charges are placed between below ground, in a hole that is drilled with dedicated drilling equipment for this purpose. This type of seismic drilling is often referred to as \"Shot Hole Drilling\". A common drill rig used for \"Shot Hole Drilling\" is the ARDCO C-1000 drill mounted on an ARDCO K 4X4 buggy. These drill rigs often use water or air to assist the drilling.\n\nAn air gun is used for marine reflection and refraction surveys. It consists of one or more pneumatic chambers that are pressurized with compressed air at pressures from 14 to 21 MPa (2000 to 3000 lbf/in). Air guns are submerged below the water surface, and towed behind a ship. When an air gun is fired, a solenoid is triggered, which releases air into a fire chamber which in turn causes a piston to move, thereby allowing the air to escape the main chamber and producing a pulse of acoustic energy. Air gun arrays may consist of up to 48 individual air guns with different size chambers, fired in concert, the aim being to create the optimum initial shock wave followed by the minimum reverberation of the air bubble(s).\n\nAir guns are made from the highest grades of corrosion resistant stainless steel. Large chambers (i.e., greater than 1 L or 70 cu in) tend to give low frequency signals, and the small chambers (less than 1 L) give higher frequency signals.\n\nA plasma sound source (PSS), otherwise called a spark gap sound source, or simply a sparker, is a means of making a very low frequency sonar pulse underwater. For each firing, electric charge is stored in a large high-voltage bank of capacitors, and then released in an arc across electrodes in the water. The underwater spark discharge produces a high-pressure plasma and vapor bubble, which expands and collapses, making a loud sound. Most of the sound produced is between 20 and 200 Hz, useful for both seismic and sonar applications.\n\nThere are also plans to use PSS as a non-lethal weapon against submerged divers.\n\nIn 1953, the weight dropping thumper technique was introduced as an alternative to dynamite sources.\nA thumper truck (or weight-drop) truck is a vehicle-mounted ground impact system which can be used to provide a seismic source. A heavy weight is raised by a hoist at the back of the truck and dropped, generally about three meters, to impact (or \"thump\") the ground. To augment the signal, the weight may be dropped more than once at the same spot, the signal may also be increased by thumping at several nearby places in an array whose dimensions may be chosen to enhance the seismic signal by spatial filtering.\n\nMore advanced thumpers use a technology called \"Accelerated Weight Drop\" (AWD), where a high pressure gas (min 7 MPa (1000 lbf/in)) is used to accelerate a heavy weight hammer () to hit a base plate coupled to the ground from a distance of . Several thumps are stacked to enhance signal to noise ratio. AWD allows both more energy and more control of the source than gravitational weight-drop, providing better depth penetration, control of signal frequency content.\n\nThumping may be less damaging to the environment than firing explosives in shot-holes, though a heavily thumped seismic line with transverse ridges every few meters might create long-lasting disturbance of the soil. An advantage of the thumper (later shared with Vibroseis), especially in politically unstable areas, is that no explosives are required.\n\nEMP sources based on the electrodynamic and electromagnetic principles.\n\nA Seismic vibrator propagates energy signals into the Earth over an extended period of time as opposed to the near instantaneous energy provided by impulsive sources. The data recorded in this way must be \"correlated\" to convert the extended source signal into an impulse. The source signal using this method was originally generated by a servo-controlled hydraulic vibrator or \"shaker unit\" mounted on a mobile base unit, but electro-mechanical versions have also been developed.\n\nThe \"Vibroseis\" exploration technique was developed by the Continental Oil Company (Conoco) during the 1950s and was a trademark until the company's patent lapsed.\n\nBoomer sound sources are used for shallow water seismic surveys, mostly for engineering survey applications. Boomers are towed in a floating sled behind a survey vessel. Similar to the plasma source, a boomer source stores energy in capacitors, but it discharges through a flat spiral coil instead of generating a spark. A copper plate adjacent to the coil flexes away from the coil as the capacitors are discharged. This flexing is transmitted into the water as the seismic pulse.\n\nOriginally the storage capacitors were placed in a steel container (the bang box) on the survey vessel. The high voltages used, typically 3,000 V, required heavy cables and strong safety containers. Recently, low voltage boomers have become available. These use capacitors on the towed sled, allowing efficient energy recovery, lower voltage power supplies and lighter cables. The low voltage systems are generally easier to deploy and have fewer safety concerns.\n\nCorrelation-based processing techniques also enable seismologists to image the interior of the Earth at multiple scales using natural (e.g., the oceanic microseism) or artificial (e.g., urban) background noise as a seismic source. For example, under ideal conditions of uniform seismic illumination, the correlation of the noise signals between two seismographs provides an estimate of the bidirectional seismic impulse response.\n\n\n\n\n<br>\n", "id": "7736733", "categories": ["Sonar"], "title": "Seismic source"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736749", "text": "Malaysian moon moth\n\nThe Malaysian moon moth (\"Actias maenas\") is a Saturniid in the subfamily Saturniinae from Indomalaya. The male is purplish-brown and yellow, while the larger female is overall light green.\n\nThe species is considered to form a superspecies complex that includes \"Actias ignescens\" Moore 1877 from the Andamans, \"Actias isis\" (Sonthonnax 1897) from Sulawesi, and \"Actias groenendaeli\" Roepke 1954 from Flores, Timor and Sumba. \"Actias rosenbergii\" (Kaup 1895) from Ambon is of doubtful status. This species is further divided into subspecies with the nominate from Continental Asia and \"A. m. diana\" Maassen 1872 from Sundas and in the Philippines.\n\nThe Malaysian moon moth ranges from Malaysia, to Sumatra, Java, the Philippines, and the surrounding region in Southeast Asia and South Asia including a population in the Western Ghats. This species covers a diverse set of biomes, from tropical rainforests to evergreen forests.\n\nThe first \"instar\" larva is orange, with a black band surrounding the middle segments, and with a black head capsule. At the first moult, the second instar larva is green with yellow/orange tubercles, a brown head capsule, and some black markings behind the head and upon the rear claspers and anal flap. At the third instar, the dark marks behind the head capsule diminish and larvae develop fine white dot patterning across their skin.\nLarvae rest in a position where the anterior end of the body is held free of the substrate, such as a leaf or a stem. Males finish development a few days earlier than females in larval and pupal stages because they are smaller. Pupae are dark brown with a transparent window area between compound eye covers. Cocoons are irregular in shape and have a papery texture. They are light brown with a glossy sheen, and have a pre-formed exit opening at the anterior end. Adults push out of their flimsy cocoons with ease. 45 minutes after emergence, wing expansion is complete. Once the forewings have completely expanded, tail expansion begins. Females fly after their wings have hardened. Females emit pheromones and mate after their first flight.\n\nAdult \"Actias maenas\" exhibit striking sexual dimorphism. Adult males are bright yellow and have purplish-brown markings, while adult females are light green in color.\n\n", "id": "7736749", "categories": ["Moths described in 1847", "Actias"], "title": "Malaysian moon moth"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736751", "text": "Iain Robertson (cricketer)\n\nIain Anthony Robertson (born 9 November 1982 in Christchurch) is a first class cricketer who plays for the Canterbury Wizards. He played for New Zealand in the 2002 U-19 Cricket World Cup in New Zealand. In 2007 he played for Countesthorpe Cricket Club in Leicestershire. Up to April 2009, he'd played 21 first class games, scoring 828 runs at nearly 40 and taking 17 wickets with his off breaks.\n\n", "id": "7736751", "categories": ["1982 births", "Otago cricketers", "Living people", "New Zealand cricketers", "Canterbury cricketers"], "title": "Iain Robertson (cricketer)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736765", "text": "Maynard Geiger\n\nMaynard J. Geiger, O.F.M., Ph.D. (August 24, 1901 – May 13, 1977) was an American Friar Minor and Roman Catholic priest, who was a major historian of the Spanish missions in California founded by the Franciscan Order.\n\nHe was born Joseph Geiger Jr. in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, in 1901 to Joseph Geiger and Katherine Kray. Twelve years later the family moved to Los Angeles. After graduating from Loyola High School there in 1919, he entered the seminary of the Friars Minor of California. He was received into the novitiate of the Order in 1923, and given the religious name of Maynard, keeping his birth name as a middle name. He received Holy Orders on June 9, 1929, at Mission Santa Barbara.\n\nGeiger wrote extensively on various aspects of the mission system, and is best known for his biography of Junípero Serra, the first \"Father Presidente\" of the Alta California missions. He was a tireless apologist for the mission system and the evangelization of the native populations, choosing to highlight through his scholarship the achievements and dedication of the friars of California.\n\n", "id": "7736765", "categories": ["1901 births", "Writers from Los Angeles", "Historians from Pennsylvania", "1977 deaths", "History of Catholicism in the United States", "American Roman Catholic priests", "American Friars Minor", "Writers from Lancaster, Pennsylvania", "20th-century Roman Catholic priests", "Franciscan scholars", "American historians of religion", "Catholics from Pennsylvania", "Guggenheim Fellows", "Spanish missions in California", "Historians of Franciscan history"], "title": "Maynard Geiger"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736769", "text": "Eddie Pellagrini Diamond at John Shea Field\n\nEddie Pellagrini Diamond at John Shea Field was a baseball stadium in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts. It was the home field of the Boston College Eagles baseball team from 1961 to 2017. The stadium held 1,000 people and was named after Commander John Joseph Shea, USN, a former football player (1916–1917) at Boston College, who died on September 15, 1942, when the aircraft carrier USS \"Wasp\" was torpedoed and sunk during the Guadalcanal Campaign in World War II. In 1997, the diamond was named for Eddie Pellagrini, head coach of the Eagles for 31 years and the coach of the team when the field opened in 1961.\n\nShea Field was also home to many tailgaters during home football games at the adjacent Alumni Stadium.\n\nThe Boston College baseball team played its final game at Shea Field on May 20, 2017. The team moved to a new baseball stadium, on nearby Brighton Campus, in spring 2018. Boston College's new Athletics Field House, an indoor practice facility for football and other varsity and intramural sports, is currently being constructed on the site of the former Shea Field. It is expected to open in August 2018.\n\n\n", "id": "7736769", "categories": ["Buildings and structures in Suffolk County, Massachusetts", "Defunct college baseball venues in the United States", "Baseball venues in Massachusetts", "Sports venues in Boston", "Boston College Eagles baseball", "Defunct sports venues in Massachusetts"], "title": "Eddie Pellagrini Diamond at John Shea Field"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736770", "text": "Louis Cardis\n\nLouis Cardis (1825 – 1877) was an American politician.\n\nHe was born in the Piedmont region of Italy. He served as a captain in Giuseppe Garibaldi's army before immigrating to the United States in 1854.\n\nCardis moved to El Paso, Texas in 1864. He quickly learned the Spanish language and established a political power base with the Mexican American citizens of the area.\n\nHe became involved in a dispute involving salt deposits and the shifting of influence and political power from the Hispanic population to the Anglo. He was elected to the Texas House of Representatives with the help of Charles H. Howard.\n\nCardis had a falling out with Howard after Howard staked an exclusive claim to the salt deposits. Cardis had his allies imprison Howard, and Howard retaliated by shooting Cardis to death with a shotgun on October 9, 1877.\n\nTwo months later Howard was killed by Cardis' former supporters from San Elizario.\n", "id": "7736770", "categories": ["Deaths by firearm in Texas", "Assassinated American politicians", "1825 births", "People from Piedmont", "Italian emigrants to the United States", "Members of the Texas House of Representatives", "People murdered in Texas", "1877 deaths", "People from El Paso, Texas", "19th-century American politicians"], "title": "Louis Cardis"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736795", "text": "VX (videocassette format)\n\nVX was a short-lived and unsuccessful consumer analog recording videocassette format developed by Matsushita and launched in 1975 in Japan. In the United States it was sold using the Quasar brand and marketed under the name \"The Great Time Machine\" to exhibit its time-shifting capabilities, since VX machines had a companion electro-mechanical clock timer for timed recording of television programs. In Japan, the VX-100 model was launched in 1975, with the VX-2000 following in 1976. The first and only model sold in North America was the Quasar VR-1000 (based on the Panasonic VX-2000), with the VT-100 timer.\n\nThe VX cassette itself had both reels of magnetic tape stacked on top of each other in a coaxial fashion (much like the earlier Philips \"VCR\" and Cartrivision formats) in the bottom half of the tape, with a circular opening on the underside of the top half of the cassette, where the video head drum would enter. The tape in this opening was pre-formed in a loop to go around the head drum, eliminating the need for the tape to be pulled out of the cassette and threaded around the drum (as with later videocassette formats such as VHS and Betamax). The opening was protected by a cylindrical plastic plug to protect the tape, which was unscrewed from the opening when the tape was loaded in the machine (by means of moving a horizontal lever on the front of the machine), and inserted back into the tape when ejected (by moving the lever back).\n\nThe video head drum itself of a VX machine also has the unique distinction of being completely removable and replaceable without any special tools or equipment. The drum has a knurled nut on top, which can be adjusted by hand, allowing the drum to be removed from the deck for cleaning or replacement. To this date, the VX machines have been the only VCR designed with this feature.\n\n\n", "id": "7736795", "categories": ["Videotape", "Audiovisual introductions in 1975", "Discontinued media formats", "Panasonic"], "title": "VX (videocassette format)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736805", "text": "Hand fetishism\n\nHand fetishism or hand partialism or also Cheirophilia is the sexual fetish for hands. This may include the sexual attraction to a specific area such as the fingers, palm or nails, or the attraction to a specific action performed by the hands; which may otherwise be considered non-sexual—such as washing or drying dishes. This fetish may manifest itself as a desire to experience physical interaction, or as a source of sexual fantasy.\n\nHand fetishism is recognized by the porn industry; however, aside from handjobs, it is one of the least common fetishes, despite foot fetishism being the most common.\n\nHand fetishism is usually based in the biological indication that a partner is healthy and a good potential mate.\n\nA hand fetish is a sexual attraction to the hands. This attraction is most commonly expressed with fingering, handjobs, sucking on the fingers and licking the palms.\n\nFingernail fetishism, a sub-type of hand fetishism is often expressed with scratching with the fingernails and painting the fingernails.\n\nIn 2007, a study was conducted by the University of Bologna on around 5000 fetishist participants to see the prevalence of fetishes. The study analyzed the content inside online fetish communities and found only 669 participants referring to nails, an extension of hand fetishism. This did not refer to fingernails specifically, and the amount of 669 was less than 1% of the participants.\n\nIn the anime/manga series \"JoJo's Bizarre Adventure\", the character Yoshikage Kira is a serial killer who murders women in order to pretend to date their severed hands.\n\n", "id": "7736805", "categories": ["Paraphilias"], "title": "Hand fetishism"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736821", "text": "Phase factor\n\nFor any complex number written in polar form (such as \"r\"e), the phase factor is the complex exponential factor (e). As such, the term \"phase factor\" is related to the more general term phasor, which may have any magnitude (i.e., not necessarily part of the circle group). The phase factor is a unit complex number, i.e., of absolute value 1. It is commonly used in quantum mechanics. \n\nThe variable \"θ\" appearing in such an expression is generally referred to as the phase. Multiplying the equation of a plane wave \"A\"e by a phase factor shifts the phase of the wave by \"θ\":\n\nIn quantum mechanics, a phase factor is a complex coefficient e that multiplies a ket formula_2 or bra formula_3. It does not, in itself, have any physical meaning, since the introduction of a phase factor does not change the expectation values of a Hermitian operator. That is, the values of formula_4 and formula_5 are the same. However, \"differences\" in phase factors between two interacting quantum states can sometimes be measurable (such as in the Berry phase) and this can have important consequences.\n\nIn optics, the phase factor is an important quantity in the treatment of interference.\n\n", "id": "7736821", "categories": ["Quantum information science", "Information theory", "Quantum mechanics"], "title": "Phase factor"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736826", "text": "Roy Lewis\n\nRoy Lewis (6 November 1913 – 1996) was an English writer and small press printer.\n\nAlthough born in Felixstowe, Lewis was brought up in Birmingham and educated at King Edward's School. After studying at University College, Oxford, earning his BA in 1934, he went on to study at the London School of Economics. He began his career as an economist, but after serving as an editor on the journal, \"Statist\", he became interested in journalism. He took a sabbatical in 1938 to travel to Australia and India. He married Christine Tew in 1939, after returning to England. They had two daughters.\n\nBeginning in July 1939 he collaborated with Randal Heymanson to produce a newsletter called \"Vital News\" that they distributed confidentially to British and American government policymakers and bankers until December 1941.\n\nFrom 1943 to 1946, he worked for the Peking Syndicate, a firm specialising in investments in China, but left to work as a journalist for the weekly, \"Scope\". Hired by the Economist magazine, he served as its Washington, DC correspondent from 1952 to 1961. He settled full-time in England in 1961, where he became a feature writer for \"The Times\", remaining with the newspaper until he retired in 1971. In 1957 he had set up the Keepsake Press, initially to hand print family ephemera. He soon began serious, though small-scale, production and by the time infirmity forced him to discontinue in 1990 he had brought out over a hundred titles.\n\nThe majority of the books that Lewis wrote or edited, often jointly, were nonfiction and closely related to his journalism. However, he is best known for his 1960 novel \"The Evolution Man\", which went through six editions under a number of titles. This comic novel purports to be a first-hand account by the son of the first man to discover fire. To prevent further 'advances', the family takes matters in hand, leading to a conclusion given away by the book's eventual subtitle, 'how I ate my father'. Continuing authorship into old age, Lewis published a second novel in 1990, the same year that a play of his on William Shakespeare was performed in the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, followed by a novella in 1991 and a further novel in 1995. All three of these later fictions were provocative reinterpretations of Victorian times.\n\n\n", "id": "7736826", "categories": ["Alumni of the London School of Economics", "People educated at King Edward's School, Birmingham", "English writers", "People from Felixstowe", "English historical novelists", "English male novelists", "Alumni of University College, Oxford", "1913 births", "1996 deaths"], "title": "Roy Lewis"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736841", "text": "Primal Rock Therapy\n\nPrimal Rock Therapy was the only studio album by Seattle grunge band Blood Circus. Sub Pop originally released it as an EP in 1988, but it was reissued in 1992 with seven extra tracks, including the band's first non-album single and five unreleased tracks from 1989. It was produced by legendary grunge producer and Skin Yard guitarist Jack Endino.\n\nAlthough Blood Circus were one of the original bands on the grunge scene in the late 1980s, and \"Primal Rock Therapy\" has since been recognized for its historic status as one of the first grunge albums ever released, at the time of the album's release it was panned by critics and became one of the poorest-selling albums ever released on Sub Pop.\n\n1. \"Road to Hell\"<br>\n2. \"Part of the Crowd\"<br>\n3. \"My Dad's Dead\"<br>\n4. \"Lime Green\"<br>\n5. \"Gnarly\"\n\n\n", "id": "7736841", "categories": ["Blood Circus (band) albums", "1992 albums"], "title": "Primal Rock Therapy"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736869", "text": "Communist Party of Germany (Roter Morgen)\n\nThe Communist Party of Germany (Red Dawn) () is a minor German political party.\n\nIt was founded in December 1985 in Hamburg by members of the Communist Party of Germany/Marxists-Leninists who disapproved of that group's fusion with the Trotskyist Gruppe Internationale Marxisten, seeing it as betrayal of their Hoxhaist ideology.\n\nThe party publishes the monthly newspaper \"Roter Morgen\". KPD was a participant in the International Conference of Marxist-Leninist Parties and Organizations.\n", "id": "7736869", "categories": ["1985 establishments in Germany", "Hoxhaist parties", "International Conference of Marxist–Leninist Parties and Organizations (Unity &amp; Struggle)", "Extraparliamentary Opposition", "Political parties established in 1985", "Communist parties in Germany"], "title": "Communist Party of Germany (Roter Morgen)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736873", "text": "Éric Fortier\n\nÉric Fortier, M.B. of Gatineau, Quebec, Canada, is a recipient of the Medal of Bravery, a Canadian honour for acts of heroism, for fighting off an attack by a polar bear that mauled two other people.\n\nThe citation reads:\n\nOn July 27, 2001, Éric Fortier confronted a polar bear that was attacking two of his camping companions at the Soper River, in Katannilik Territorial Park Reserve, Nunavut. In the early morning hours, the bear ripped open the tent where Mr. Fortier and his partner were sleeping. Their screams drove the bear away but the animal turned on their friends, savagely mauling them as they tried to exit their own tent and escape. Ignoring the danger, Mr. Fortier threw rocks at the animal while yelling at it in an attempt to scare it off. Seeing that his efforts were in vain, he confronted the bear and stabbed it repeatedly in the throat with a pocketknife until the wounded animal retreated into the woods. Mr. Fortier and his partner then helped their injured friends into a canoe and paddled eight kilometres across the river to find help. The victims recovered from their injuries.\n", "id": "7736873", "categories": ["Living people", "Canadian humanitarians", "People from Gatineau", "Year of birth missing (living people)"], "title": "Éric Fortier"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736889", "text": "Rhamphorhynchoidea\n\nThe Rhamphorhynchoidea forms one of the two suborders of pterosaurs and represent an evolutionary grade of primitive members of this group of flying reptiles. This suborder is paraphyletic in relation to the Pterodactyloidea, which arose from within the Rhamphorhynchoidea, not from a more distant common ancestor. Because it is not a completely natural grouping, Rhamphorhynchoidea is not used as a formal group in most scientific literature, though some pterosaur scientists continue to use it as an informal grouping in popular works, such as \"The Pterosaurs: From Deep Time\" by David Unwin, and in some formal studies. Rhamphorhynchoids were the first pterosaurs to have appeared, in the late Triassic Period (Norian age, about 210 million years ago). Unlike their descendants the pterodactyloids, most rhamphorhynchoids had teeth and long tails, and most species lacked a bony crest, though several are known to have crests formed from soft tissue like keratin. They were generally small, with wingspans rarely exceeding 2.5 meters, though one species alluded to by Alexander Stoyanow might be among the largest pterosaurs of all time with a wingspan of 10 meters, comparable to the largest azhdarchids. Nearly all had become extinct by the end of the Jurassic Period, though least one anurognathid genus, \"Dendrorhynchoides\", persisted to the early Cretaceous. The family Wukongopteridae, which shows a mix of rhamphorhynchoid and pterodactyloid features, is known from the Daohugou Beds which are most commonly dated to the Jurassic, but a few studies give a Cretaceous date. Further more, remains of a non-pterodactyloid from the Candeleros Formation extend the presence of basal pterosaurs into the at least early Late Cretaceous.\n\nListing of families and superfamilies within the suborder Rhamphorhynchoidea, after Unwin 2006 unless otherwise noted.\n\n", "id": "7736889", "categories": ["Rhamphorhynchoids"], "title": "Rhamphorhynchoidea"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736895", "text": "Lysyl oxidase\n\nLysyl oxidase (LOX), also known as protein-lysine 6-oxidase, is a protein that, in humans, is encoded by the LOX gene. Its inhibition can cause osteolathyrism, but, at the same time, its upregulation by tumor cells may promote metastasis of the existing tumor, causing it to become malignant and cancerous.\n\nIn the yeast strain \"Pichia pastoris\", lysyl oxidase constitutes a homodimeric structure. Each monomer consists of an active site that includes a Cu(II) atom coordinated with three histidine residues as well as 2,4,5-trihydroxyphenalanine quinone (TPQ), a crucial cofactor.\n\nIn humans, the LOX gene is located on chromosome 5q23.3-31.2. The DNA sequence encodes a polypeptide of 417 amino acids, the first 21 residues of which constitute a signal peptide, with a weight of approximately 32 kDa. The carboxyterminus contains the active copper (II) ion, lysine, tyrosine, and cysteine residues that comprise the catalytically active site. The three-dimensional structure of human lysyl oxidase has not yet been resolved.\n\nThe mechanism of lysyl oxidase occurs via modification of the ε-amino group of a lysine side chain. The enzyme falls into the category of quinone-containing copper amine oxidases, and the reaction is highly dependent on the cofactor lysyl tyrosylquinone (LTQ). The LTQ cofactor is unique among quinones due to its ortho/benzoquinone structure and neutral charge under physiological pH. This can be contrasted with the similar ubiquitous quinocofactor TPQ, which exists as a negatively charged structure under physiological conditions and includes ortho/para-carbonyl resonance functionality.\n\nLTQ is crucial in LOX-catalyzed conversion of lysine residues to α-aminoadipidic-δ-semialdehydes, generally referred to as allysines. In the oxidation of lysine, the ε-amine is first converted to a Schiff base via reaction with LTQ. While LTQ is still bound to the substrate, rate-limiting removal of the ε-proton yields an imine intermediate. Subsequent hydrolysis of the imine leads to release of the aldehyde product, allysine. Molecular oxygen and the copper ion are utilized to reoxidize the cofactor and yield another imine, producing hydrogen peroxide as a side product. Additional hydrolysis releases ammonia and the original cofactor, completing the catalytic cycle.\n\nLysyl oxidase is an extracellular copper-dependent enzyme that catalyzes formation of aldehydes from lysine residues in collagen and elastin precursors. These aldehydes are highly reactive, and undergo spontaneous chemical reactions with other lysyl oxidase-derived aldehyde residues, or with unmodified lysine residues. This results in cross-linking collagen and elastin, which is essential for stabilization of collagen fibrils and for the integrity and elasticity of mature elastin.\n\nComplex cross-links are formed in collagen (pyridinolines derived from three lysine residues) and in elastin (desmosines derived from four lysine residues) that differ in structure.\n\nThe importance of lysyl oxidase-derived cross-linking was established from animal studies in which lysyl oxidase was inhibited either by nutritional copper-deficiency or by supplementation of diets with β-aminopropionitrile (BAPN), an inhibitor of lysyl oxidase. This resulted in lathyrism, characterized by poor bone formation and strength, hyperextensible skin, weak ligaments, and increased occurrence of aortic aneurysms. These abnormalities correlated well with decreased cross-linking of collagen and elastin.\n\nDevelopmentally, reduced lysyl oxidase levels have been implicated in Menkes disease and Occipital horn syndrome, two X-linked recessive disorders characterized by a mutation in a gene for copper transportation. Thus, not only is LOX crucial to cardiovascular development, it is thought to play a major role in connective tissue development and may also be important in neurological function.\n\nLysyl oxidase has also proven crucial to the development of the respiratory system and the skin, as collagen and elastin represent 50-60% of the composition of the lung, and 75% of the skin. In LOX double knockout models (\"Lox -/-\"), function of LOX was reduced by up to 80%, and the phenotype of the lungs resembles those of human patients with emphysema and dilated distal airways.\n\nFinally, lysyl oxidase plays a crucial role in the commitment step of adipocyte, or fat cell, formation from pluripotent stem cells during development. Its absence may lead to defects in the transforming growth factor beta superfamily of proteins, which control cell growth and differentiation.\n\nLOX expression is regulated by hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs), and, hence, LOX expression is often upregulated in hypoxic breast and head and neck tumors. Patients with high LOX-expressing tumors have poor overall survival. Furthermore, inhibition of LOX has been demonstrated to eliminate metastases in mice. Secreted LOX is responsible for the invasive properties of hypoxic cancer cells through focal adhesion kinase activity and cell-to-matrix adhesion. LOX may be required to create a niche permissive for metastatic growth and, thus, may be required for hypoxia-induced metastasis. In fact, recent research has shown overexpression of LOX as crucial to promoting tumor growth and metastasis in several cancers, including breast cancer, melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer, and colorectal cancer.\n\nLOX expression was also detected in megakaryocytes, or bone marrow cells responsible for the production of platelets. Data derived from a mouse model of myelofibrosis implicated LOX in bone marrow fibrosis.\n\nIn a rodent model of breast cancer, a small-molecule or antibody inhibitors of LOX abolished metastasis. LOX secreted by hypoxic breast tumor cells crosslinks collagen in the basement membrane and is essential for CD11b+ myeloid cell recruitment. CD11b+ cells in turn adhere to crosslinked collagen and produce matrix metalloproteinase-2, which cleaves collagen, enhancing the invasion of metastasizing tumor cells. In contrast, LOX inhibition prevents CD11b+ cell recruitment and metastatic growth.\n\nIn cells lacking TGF-β receptors, a deficiency that is characteristic of lung cancer, lysyl oxidase is found in high concentrations. LOX immunostaining has revealed that high LOX expression is associated with high extent of carcinoma invasion in samples obtained from surgically removed lung adenocarcinomas. Additionally, LOX expression is an indicator of 5-year survival in patients, with a 71% chance of survival for patients with low LOX levels, compared to 43% for patients with high LOX levels. Thus, upregulation of lysyl oxidase is a predictor of poor prognosis in early-stage adenocarcinoma patients.\n\nLysyl oxidase has been newly implicated in tumor angiogenesis, or blood vessel formation, both \"in vivo\" and \"in vitro\". Subcutaneous tumor-derived LOX was shown to increase vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression and secretion, which then promotes angiogenesis by phosphorylation of protein kinase B, or Akt, through platelet-derived growth factor receptor β (PDGFRB). High levels of LOX were associated with high blood vessel density in patient samples. Clinically relevant LOX inhibitors may help slow cancer progression by downregulating crucial growth factors that promote solid tumor progression.\n\nHence, inhibitors of the LOX enzyme may be useful in preventing angiogenesis, tumor progression, and metastasis as well as treating other fibrotic disease involving remodeling of the extracellular matrix, including neurodegenerative and cardiovascular diseases.\n", "id": "7736895", "categories": [], "title": "Lysyl oxidase"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736904", "text": "V-Cord\n\nV-Cord is an analog recording videocassette format developed and released by Sanyo. V-Cord (later referred to as V-Cord I) was released in 1974, and could record 60 minutes on a cassette. V-Cord II, released in 1976, could record 120 minutes on a V-Cord II cassette.\n\nThe V-Cord II machines were the first consumer VCRs to offer two recording speeds.\n\nThe original V-Cord cassette had a large hub and was wound with standard-thickness magnetic tape; V-Cord II used a small hub wound with thin tape, the same thickness later used for VHS-120 and Beta L-750. The cassettes were rectangular; unlike subsequent formats VHS and Betamax, which loaded with the tape facing front on the long side of the cassette, the V-Cord cartridge was loaded sideways with the narrow side serving as the \"front\" and the tape coming out the \"side\".\n\nThe tape was held in place in the machine by a notch halfway down the right side of the tape, similar to what holds an 8-track tape into its player.\n\nThe earliest machines recorded only in black and white and had no rewind mechanism, like the Cartrivision format of a few years earlier; an external rewinder was used after recording or playing a tape. External rewinders were later used with the VHS and Beta formats, although the machines could rewind tapes; external rewinders were considerably faster than the rewind function.\n\nThe system had two recording modes: standard mode (STD), and a long-play mode (LP) which sacrificed recording quality for extra capacity. In STD mode both recording and playback heads are used, writing both fields of each interlaced video frame. In long-play mode only a single head is used to record a single field from each video frame, with each field being read twice on playback, in a \"skip field\" technique. The heads scanned the tape in a helical scan fashion \n\nTape was moved forward at 2.91 inches per second in STD mode, and 1.45 inches per second in LP mode; this gave a recording time of one-hour in standard mode and two hours in long-play mode. Horizontal resolution in color was quoted as 250 lines in advertising materials, stretching to 300 lines in black-and-white, with a video signal-to-noise ratio of 45 dB. Audio response was specified as 80 to 10,000 Hz at -6 dB in STD mode, dropping to 80 to 8,000 Hz in LP mode.\n\nThe tape was a half-inch cobalt doped tape with a 550 oersted coercivity. The cassette measured 4 \" by 6 \" by 1\". Two cassette types were available, a V60 and a V120 whose names matched their recording capacity in LP mode. The cassettes are similar in appearance to eight-track cartridges.\n\nConventional VHS and Beta formats recorded in a helical scan format, resulting in angled tracks running from the lower edge of the tape to the upper edge some distance down. Unlike these formats, the V-Cord format was closer to the 2-inch quadruplex videotape format used from the inception of video in the late 1950s until 2-inch helical IVC videotape format was introduced twenty years later, in that its tracks ran nearly perpendicular to tape travel.\n\nA portable four-head video recorder, the Sanyo VTC-7100, used a similar format of cassette, but produced incompatible recordings.\n\nToshiba KV-4000, KV-4100, and KV-4200; and Sanyo VTC-7300, VTC-8000, and VTC-8200 V-Cord I/II VCR (1976)\n\n\n", "id": "7736904", "categories": ["Sanyo products", "Discontinued media formats", "Video storage"], "title": "V-Cord"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736919", "text": "Cliff Barnes\n\nClifford \"Cliff\" Barnes, played by Ken Kercheval, is a fictional character from the popular American television series \"Dallas\". The Barnes family are competitors and sometimes enemies of the Ewing family. Cliff is the son of Willard \"Digger\" Barnes and Rebecca Barnes, the older half-brother of Pamela Barnes Ewing and Katherine Wentworth. J.R. Ewing (played by Larry Hagman) was Cliff's personal nemesis, with Cliff and J.R. continuing on the bitter feud that started with their fathers, Digger Barnes and Jock Ewing, from their oil wildcatting days in the 1930s. Cliff and J.R. were the only two characters to appear throughout the entire run of the series. A running gag on the series is Cliff's fondness for Chinese take-out.\n\nDuring the show's original conception, the character of Cliff was modeled on the late Robert F. Kennedy. However, he evolved into a bumbling sad sack who was very much his own worst enemy. A lawyer and a bureaucrat, not an oil man, Cliff was out of his element when dealing in the cutthroat oil business and, despite repeated attempts, would always be outsmarted and outdone by his rival J.R. Thanks to Carter McKay, Cliff finally beats J.R. in the final season, and takes over Ewing Oil.\n\nCliff had a close relationship with his sister, Pamela (played by Victoria Principal) and hated that she married Bobby Ewing (played by Patrick Duffy), J.R.'s younger brother.\n\nWhen \"Dallas\" began, Cliff worked for the state of Texas, building an impressive recorded reputation as investigator of corruption within the independent oil companies. It was no coincidence that these investigations often cited or targeted Ewing Oil. During the second and third seasons, Cliff's career took an upward swing when he was appointed Chief of the Office of Land Management, a fictional enormously powerful state agency that coordinated and approved all ventures that affected the surface and geological texture of Texas land, including oil drilling permits. In an attempt to lure Barnes out of this powerful position, J.R. Ewing enlisted attorney Alan Beam in a scheme to form an exploratory funding committee (funds solely provided by J.R. Ewing) promoting Barnes as a candidate for the U.S. Congress. The scheme worked as Barnes resigned from his position to run for Congress. After his resignation, the money flow to the campaign stopped and Barnes was forced to drop out of the race.\n\nCliff had an affair with J.R.'s wife, Sue Ellen (played by Linda Gray) during the second season of \"Dallas\". When Sue Ellen became pregnant, it was believed Cliff was the father of her baby. After a dizzy spell sent Digger to the doctor, he was diagnosed as a carrier of neurofibromatosis, a genetic disorder which he'd passed on to Cliff. As neurofibromatosis poses a greater threat to infants than to adults, the doctor strongly advised them not to have children. Cliff was worried that John Ross III might develop the potentially fatal disease, but Bobby and Pam convinced him to keep quiet. They all decided to monitor the baby's health until he passed a critical age.\n\nAfter Cliff was forced to drop out of the Congressional race, he quickly figured out that J.R. had been behind the plot and vowed revenge. When a newspaper reporter interviewed Digger about Cliff's resignation, he told her that Cliff was really the father of John Ross III. Cliff realized that the scandal would embarrass J.R. and sued for custody. In order to prove paternity, blood tests had to be performed on Sue Ellen and J.R. The first test proved inconclusive, but a second DNA test confirmed that J.R. was John Ross III's father after all.\n\nIn a major step backwards, Barnes took a position as a Dallas assistant district attorney. Shortly after taking the position, Barnes promoted the prosecution of Jock Ewing for a 30-year-old murder, which was dismissed after, ironically, Digger Barnes confessed to the murder on his deathbed. In season four, Cliff Barnes began working with State Senator Dave Culver, believing that Culver (the son of Sam Culver, a Texas and national political icon) would be destined for powerful office. During this time, Cliff also formed a \"personal\" relationship with Donna Culver (played by Susan Howard), who was Dave's most trusted advisor and the widow of Sam. Relations between Donna and Cliff soured and quickly ended when Dave was appointed to the U.S. Senate and Donna's party committee chose Bobby Ewing (instead of Barnes) to run for his vacant state senate seat. After Bobby Ewing won the senate race (as a favor to wife Pam) he asked Barnes to be his chief senate counsel. Cliff accepted but after a short tenure, they had a falling out over Cliff's decision (without consulting Bobby) to start a senate investigation against J.R. for alleged organization of a counter-revolution in Southeast Asia.\n\nIn the course of the fourth season, Cliff's mother, Rebecca Wentworth (played by Priscilla Pointer) made a dramatic reentry into his life. After much debating, Cliff forgave her for her desertion. It also delighted Cliff that his mother was an important lady who was wealthy and powerful in her own right. Rebecca eventually offered him the presidency of Wentworth Tool & Die, a small subsidiary of Wentworth Industries, which made parts for oil rigs. Cliff happily accepted and did extraordinarily well for a time. Eventually Cliff asked for, and received, complete autonomy at Wentworth Tool & Die - but his fortunes took a dramatic downturn when he wasted Wentworth funds on a phony deal engineered by J.R. Cliff's mother subsequently sacked him - this, coupled with Sue Ellen's decision to remarry J.R around the same time, drove Cliff to attempt suicide.\n\nCliff recovered, and Rebecca subsequently bought out Wade Luce Oil, renaming it Barnes-Wentworth Oil. Rebecca asked Cliff to run the company for her and he accepted - blaming J.R. for Cliff's suicide attempt, Rebecca encouraged Cliff to use the company (and the place in the Cartel which came with it) to gain revenge. Armed with a new lease on life, and a new hatred for the Ewings, he became driven to succeed, and as a result, turned Barnes-Wentworth into a very successful company. That year, Cliff won the coveted \"Oil Man Of the Year\" award at the Oil Baron's Ball. However, instead of enjoying his success he embarrassed himself by verbally trashing Jock Ewing and Ewing Oil during his acceptance speech, resulting in a huge brawl.\n\nRebecca died soon after from injuries sustained in a plane crash, and Cliff inherited Barnes-Wentworth Oil, as well as a third of Wentworth Industries (much to the disgust of his half sister Katherine).\nDuring the fifth season, Cliff and Sue Ellen became romantically involved again and he proposed marriage, however she turned him down and eventually remarried J.R. Cliff did find happiness again with aspiring singer Afton Cooper (played by Audrey Landers), the sister of Lucy Ewing's husband Mitch Cooper. It would later transpire that Afton gave birth to a daughter, Pamela Rebecca, after the end of her relationship with Cliff. At the start of the penultimate season, it was revealed that Pamela was indeed Cliff's daughter, although Afton, disgusted by Cliff's lying to her, tricked him into believing otherwise.\n\nCliff married Jamie Ewing, daughter of the late Jason Ewing and therefore a cousin of J.R. and Bobby (played by Jenilee Harrison) in 1985, but the union was unhappy at first, Cliff having married Jamie purely for the inheritance he always believed to be his birthright. During the 1985-86 season they realized how much they loved one another and became close. In April 1986, Jamie was seen trapped in a blazing car and presumed dead. But the entire 1985-86 season turned out to be the nightmare of Cliff's sister Pam. So Cliff and Jamie's happy marriage and her supposed death were just a dream and thus Cliff and Jamie never found happiness. She left him in fall 1986 and the union was headed for a divorce when it was explained that Jamie was killed due to a fall while on a mountain climbing holiday.\n\nCliff eventually realizes his dream of taking over a share of Ewing Oil and for a time enjoys a good personal and business relationship with Bobby, whilst J.R. is temporarily sidelined from the business. It is notable that Cliff and Bobby appear to find mutual respect and liking only after Pamela has gone and their family ties are effectively severed. Cliff is also shown at this time to be a loving and attentive uncle to Christopher, who is suffering from the absence of his mother. Cliff enjoys a seemingly open welcome to Southfork during this time, something that would have been unheard of in earlier seasons. J.R. eventually returned to Ewing Oil and while they were briefly able to coexist, it didn't last. J.R.'s maneuvering and Cliff's inattention to the business due to his attempts to win back Afton, (\"the only woman I ever loved\") soon had Cliff falling out of favor once again with the Ewings. By the end of the series, the feud that had characterized much of \"Dallas\"'s run was firmly back on.\n\nA theme of Cliff Barnes' character was social class conflict with his nemesis J.R. Ewing. Cliff had grown up poor in contrast to J.R. after the partnership between Cliff's father Digger and Jock Ewing dissolved, due in large part to Digger's heavy drinking. Jock went on to found Ewing Oil. Digger blamed Jock for his subsequent bad luck and was jealous of Jock's wealth. Cliff inherited Digger's resentment of the Ewings, and as well as the tendency to sometimes drink heavily. As time went on his hatred for the Ewings (with the exception of J.R.) dissipated, as Cliff realized that his father was not blameless in regards to the Barnes-Ewing feud. Throughout the series Cliff had a reputation for being cheap and naive in contrast to J.R. Whereas J.R. always dined in fine restaurants, wore a stylish Stetson, lived on Southfork and lavished his mistresses with generosity; Cliff often preferred take-out Chinese cuisine, wore cheap suits, lived in a condominium and assumed his romantic interests would clean his home. While J.R. was smooth talking and charismatic, Cliff tended to speak before he thought and frequently stuck his foot in his mouth. Much of the drama of \"Dallas\" was centered around Cliff's attempts to revenge himself against J.R. politically, romantically and financially. Typically, Cliff's schemes failed because of J.R.'s under-handed cleverness.\n\nCliff eventually got one over J.R. shortly before the TV series ended when he took over Ewing Oil.\n\nIn the series finale \"Conundrum\" in 1991, Cliff appears in J.R's dream where, with J.R. having never born, he was never pulled into the Barnes-Ewing feud. He became a lawyer who was married to a woman who loved him for himself, not his money, and had two grown children. He turns out to have become Vice President of the United States and at a party, learns the President has suffered a stroke and he will be soon taking office.\n\nCliff appeared in the 1996 film \"\", wherein after 5 years at Ewing Oil, he decides he has had enough of the oil business, and looks to sell. Initially making a deal with West Star head Carter McKay, he eventually sells the company to Bobby and Sue Ellen, effectively ending the feud with J.R. when he decides that reuniting with his family (Afton and his long-lost daughter Pamela) is more important than beating J.R.\n\nCliff reappeared in the 2012 continuation of the series, which picks up 20 years after the original series concluded and ignores the events of the two 1990s TV movies.\n\nAs the series begins, Cliff is involved in a casino business. He returns to Dallas and has a meeting with Bobby at Southfork Ranch. Cliff wants to buy Southfork, which Bobby has put up for sale. J.R. walks in on their conversation and warns Cliff against trying to buy the Ewing family home. Cliff later invites his adoptive nephew, Christopher, and his new wife, Rebecca, to dinner and expresses an interest in investing in Christopher's energy project. Christopher declines, as he thinks that Cliff just wants to antagonize the Ewings again; however, Cliff warns him not to let the Ewings destroy him like they did his adoptive mother, Pamela. When J.R. arrives at Sue Ellen's office to give her Miss Ellie's pearls, a good luck charm for her Texas gubernatorial campaign, Cliff arrives to take Sue Ellen to lunch to discuss politics. When questioned about trying to buy Southfork, Cliff announces, \"\"I will never stop fighting for what is rightfully mine\".\"\n\nIn addition, sometime between the end of the original series and the 2012 continuation, Cliff Barnes started a new company, Barnes Global, which owns hundreds of subsidiaries in over fifty countries. His desire to spite the Ewing family persists and Cliff eventually directs the bombing of a methane-extracting rig belonging to Ewing Energies, which results in the deaths of Christopher and Rebecca's two unborn children. As an aside, no mention was ever made of the neurofibromatosis gene that Cliff carries. Years before, he'd vowed never to have children, because he feared they could die of the disease. As the gene is passed from the carrier to their offspring, the risk that Rebecca or her children could suffer is high.\n\nThe ensuing events result, at the end of season two, in the Ewings taking control of Barnes Global and folding it into a larger company known as Ewing Global, with Cliff sitting in a Mexican jail, charged with murdering J.R. Ewing. However, he managed to reach out to Elena Ramos and reveal more of J.R.'s nefarious business tactics. In a surprising twist, he revealed to Elena her father had been fleeced out of the land J.R. managed to profit off of by having the deed to part of his family's land and her father's land switched so Elena's father got the piece of land that lacked any oil. As her father lost his life trying to find oil on it and her brother trafficked drugs to purchase the land back from the Ewings, his revelation seemed to sway her. He told Elena to make the Ewings pay for J.R.'s sins against her family and gave her proxy over the one-third share of Barnes Global he still owned in the company.\n\nIt is revealed in the season one finale that Christopher's wife known to him as Rebecca Sutter is actually Cliff's daughter Pamela, known in the original series as Pamela Rebecca Cooper. Cliff is shown to be behind Rebecca's attempt to hustle Christopher.\n\nAlthough Pamela had discovered the Ewings had set up Cliff for the murder of J.R., she had chosen to leave Cliff in prison because he had blown up the rig and caused her to lose her unborn children. She had however given him the deed to the land that Digger had deserved, only at the expense of not being able to enjoy it. Cliff was then left in prison.\n\nKercheval stated that had \"Dallas\" not been cancelled, he wouldn't have been back for a fourth season.\n\nA restaurant in Stockholm's Vasastan district has operated under the name of the television character for at least two decades. In the 1980s, a German punk rock band went by the name Cliff Barnes and the Fear of Winning.\n\n", "id": "7736919", "categories": ["Dallas (TV franchise) characters", "Fictional American lawyers", "Fictional characters from Texas", "Fictional characters introduced in 1978", "Fictional businesspeople"], "title": "Cliff Barnes"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736921", "text": "Foreign policy of the Bill Clinton administration\n\nThe foreign policy of the Bill Clinton administration was the foreign policy of the United States during the two term Presidency of Bill Clinton, 1993 to 2001. Clinton's main foreign policy advisors were Secretaries of State Warren M. Christopher (1993–96) followed by Madeleine Albright (1997-2001) in his second term. The Cold War had ended and the Soviet Union had disintegrated under his predecessor President George H. W. Bush, whom Clinton criticized for being too preoccupied with foreign affairs. The United States was the only remaining superpower, with a military strength far overshadowing the rest of the world. Absent the Cold War, Clinton's main priority was always domestic affairs, especially the domestic economy. Foreign-policy took a backseat, except to promote American trade, and during unexpected emergencies. His emergencies had to do with humanitarian crises which raised the issue of American or NATO or United Nations interventions to protect civilians, or armed humanitarian intervention, as the result of civil war, state collapse, or oppressive governments. \n\nPresident George H. W. Bush had sent American troops on a humanitarian mission to Somalia, but 18 of them were killed and 80 wounded in a botched raid in October 1993. Public opinion, and most elite opinion, swung heavily against foreign interventions that risked the lives of American soldiers when American national interests were not directly involved. That meant humanitarian missions were problematic. Clinton agreed, and sent Ground troops only once, to Haiti, where none were hurt. He sent the Air Force to do massive bombing in the former Yugoslavia, but no American crewmen were lost. The major trouble spots during his two terms were in Africa (Somalia and Rwanda) and Eastern Europe (Bosnia, Herzegovina, and Kosovo in the former Yugoslavia). Clinton also tried to resolve long-running conflicts in Northern Ireland, and the Middle East, particularly the Israeli–Palestinian conflict.\n\nAs a campaigner for election, Clinton promised to devote his main attention to domestic policy, in contrast to What he called the overemphasis on foreign policies by his opponent George H. W. Bush. On taking office he told his top advisers he could only spare one hour a week meeting with them. However Clinton had attended attended graduate school in England, and increasingly took a personal interest in foreign affairs, especially in his second term. His main foreign policy advisors were Secretaries of State Warren M. Christopher and Madeleine Albright and National Security Advisors Anthony Lake and Sandy Berger. Other key advisors include Secretary of Defense Les Aspin, and Strobe Talbott who as Ambassador at large dealt with Russia and India.\n\nPolitical scientist Stephen Schlesinger argues that Warren Christopher was: \n\nRealizing that increasing international trade would supports Clinton's highest priority of economic growth, Secretary of Commerce Ronald H. Brown led delegations of entrepreneurs, businessmen and financiers to South Africa, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Israel, the West Bank, Gaza, Egypt, Russia, Brazil, Argentina and Chile, China and Hong Kong, Ireland India and Senegal. He was on a trade mission to war-torn Yugoslavia in 1996 when they all died in an accidental plane crash. A special prosecutor was appointed when it was alleged that contributions to the Democratic Party enabled one to join the trade party. Over its eight years in office, the administration signed 300 trade agreements with other countries.\n\nThe Chinese communist regime had crushed the pro-democracy movement at Tiananmen Square in 1989. President Bush voiced American outrage, but quietly reassured the Chinese that trade would continue. In the 1992 election campaign, Clinton criticized Bush for not punishing China. However, when Clinton took office himself, he continued the Bush policies. Clinton's highest priority was to maintain trade with China, boost American exports, expand investment in the huge Chinese market, and create more jobs at home. By granting China temporary most favoured nation status in 1993, his administration minimized tariff levels in Chinese imports. Clinton initially conditioned extension of this status on Chinese human rights reforms, but ultimately decided to extend the status despite a lack of reform. \n\nIn 1998, Clinton paid a friendly nine-day visit to China. Albright defended the trip by saying, \"Engagement does not mean endorsement.\" In 1999 Clinton signed a landmark trade agreement with China. The agreement–the result of more than a decade of negotiations–would lower many trade barriers between the two countries, making it easier to export U.S. products such as automobiles, banking services, and motion pictures. The Chinese citizens ability to afford and purchase U.S. goods should have been taken into consideration. However, the agreement could only take effect if China was accepted into the WTO and was granted permanent \"normal trade relations\" status by the U.S. Congress. Under the pact, the United States would support China's membership in the WTO. Many Democrats as well as Republicans were reluctant to grant permanent status to China because they were concerned about human rights in the country and the impact of Chinese imports on U.S. industries and jobs. Congress, however, voted in 2000 to grant permanent normal trade relations with China. In 2000, Clinton signed a bill granting permanent normal trade relations to China, and American imports from China massively increased in the subsequent years. Clinton's last treasury secretary, Lawrence Summers, argued that Clinton's trade policies were technically \"the largest tax cut in the history of the world\" in that they reduced prices on consumer goods by lowering tariffs.\n\nIn 1993 Clinton worked with a bipartisan coalition in Congress to overcome objections by labor union and liberal Democrats. They passed the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) that Bush had negotiated with Canada and Mexico in 1992. It joined the American, Mexican and Canadian economies in a free trade pact. It removed many restrictions of trade in agriculture, textiles, and automobiles, provided new protections for intellectual property, set up dispute resolution mechanisms, and implemented new labor and environmental safeguards. NAFTA cost jobs at first but in the long run it dramatically increased the trade among the three countries. It increased the number of jobs in the United States, but unions complained that it lowered wage rates for some workers. However, unions blocked his 1997 and 1998 proposals to provide the president with the power to quickly negotiate trade liberalization pacts with limited congressional comment. Clinton's advocacy of trade agreements sparked a backlash on the left among opponents of globalization. A 1999 World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle, Washington, was overshadowed by major protests that descended into violence.\n\nThe end of superpower rivalry had freed the UN and NATO and regional security institutions from their previous Cold War mind-set, and created new opportunities for them to play a more active, collective role. Despite international norms of state sovereignty and non-intervention, the idea that the international community should intervene in a country for the good of its own people gained greater legitimacy. International organizations such as the UN and regional security such as NATO, the OAS, and the OAU would play a role in bestowing legitimacy on the operations and in organizing a collective response. Domestically however, these new developments at the international level became enmeshed with a long-standing struggle between Congress and the president over war powers, and differences in treaties between domestic and international understandings of the term. Which branch of government was to control the deployment of American troops occupied these debates almost as much as the merits of the individual interventions. These debates were not new, with the struggle over war powers being a constant feature of American foreign policy, especially since WWII when it first gained superpower status, joined international organizations, and signed its first mutual defense treaty in more that 150 years. Clinton would utilize both the multi-national cast and the explicit blessing of international organizations for support in most of these involvements. These largely humanitarian operations during his term met much more congressional opposition, and enjoyed less frequent congressional authorization, than did operations during the Cold War. This involvement suggests that the president had found international organizations to be a useful ally in part to decrease and to overcome the resistance of the national legislature.\n\nJust weeks before Clinton took office, President George H. W. Bush had deployed American soldiers to Somalia, a coastal nation on the Horn of Africa, where people were suffering and dying from starvation and civil war. The soldiers were sent to guard food and other relief supplies from being stolen by warring factions. After soldiers faced fire from armed clans and 19 soldiers were killed in 1993 in the Battle of Mogadishu, the mission quickly lost popularity with the American people. Fearing chaos resulting in the starvation of Somalia's civilians and to help U.S. Forces defend themselves, Clinton increased troop presence in the country. Demands for withdrawal, however, grew louder and Clinton ordered troops out of the country in March 1994. This left Somalia in a state of chaos, with warlords battling for control. Public and elite opinion became strongly opposed to sending American ground troops on combat missions, and Clinton agreed. He did send ground troops to Haiti, but none were engaged in combat. He sent the Air Force into Yugoslavia for large-scale bombing raids, but no crewmen were lost.\n\nIn April 1994, genocide in Rwanda erupted due to a long-standing conflict between the majority Hutu and dominant Tutsi ethnic groups. In little more than 100 days, Hutu militia massacred about 800,000 Tutsi men women and children. The small UN force on the scene was helpless. European nations flew in to remove their own nationals, then Flew out. There was a strong consensus in the United States at both the elite and popular levels that the United States should not send in large-scale combat forces to stop the massacres. American officials avoided the word \"genocide\" because that would justify military intervention. Clinton later called his inaction his worst mistake.\n\nThe Hutu militia were highly effective in killing Tutu civilians, but they were ineffective when a large Tutu armed force based in neighboring Uganda invaded in July, seized full control of the entire nation of Rwanda. By the end of July, 1994, nearly two million Hutus fled the country for safety, flooding into refugee camps in neighboring countries. As many thousands of refugees died of disease and starvation, Clinton ordered airdrops of food and supplies for the Hutu refugees, including known genocidaires. In July, he sent 200 non-combatant troops to the Rwanda capital of Kigali to manage the airport and distribute relief supplies. These troops were withdrawn by October 1994. Clinton and the United Nations faced criticism for their non-response to the genocide. When Clinton traveled to Africa in 1998, he said that the international community, presumably including the US, must accept responsibility for the failure to respond to the massacres. When speaking about the Rwanda Crisis, Clinton called it his worst failure, admitting \"I blew it.\" During his African trip, Clinton also referred to the concept of the \"new generation of African leaders\".\n\nIn August 1998, terrorists bombed the United States embassies in the capitals of two East African countries, Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. About 250 people were killed, including 12 Americans, and more than 5,500 were injured. After intelligence linked the bombings to Osama bin Laden, a wealthy Saudi Arabian living in Afghanistan who was suspected of terrorist activity, Clinton ordered missile attacks on sites in Afghanistan and Sudan in retaliation for the bombings at the U.S. embassies and to deter future terrorist attacks. The Clinton administration maintained that the sites—a pharmaceutical factory at Khartoum (the capital of Sudan) and several alleged terrorist camps in Afghanistan—were involved in terrorist activities.\n\nMuch of Clinton's reluctant focus was the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a nation in southeastern Europe that had declared its independence from Yugoslavia in 1992. The Bush administration decided with the Cold War over, Yugoslavia was no longer a high American priority. Trouble there could be less left to Europe to handle. But Clinton was outraged by the humanitarian disaster, and decided to play a role. This declaration was the catalyst of a war between Bosnian Serbs, who wanted Bosnia to remain in the Yugoslav federation, and Bosnian Muslims and Croats. The Bosnian Serbs, who were supported by Serbia, were better equipped than the Muslims and the Croats; as a result, they populated and controlled much of the countryside in ways including besieging cities, such as the capital of Sarajevo. This caused widespread suffering.\n\nIn early 1993 the Clinton administration decided on aggressive action, ignoring both the United Nations and key European allies. The proposed policy was called lift and strike). The plan was to \"lift\" the arms embargo the UN had imposed on all sides, which left the Bosnian Muslims unarmed. The US would arm them so they could defend themselves. until they were fully prepared to fight for themselves, the US would hit the Bosnian Serbs with air strikes to keep them back. Christopher traveled to Europe to win support from Britain, France and Germany, but they were all staunchly opposed. By the time Christopher returned to Washington, support for the plan had evaporated, based on memories of Vietnam and fears of being plunged into a chaotic war with no end in sight. In 1994, Clinton opposed an effort by the Republicans in Congress to lift the arms embargo, as it were, because American allies were still resistant to that policy.\n\nClinton continued to pressure western European countries throughout 1994 to take strong measures against the Serbs. But in November, as the Serbs seemed on the verge of defeating the Muslims and Croats in several strongholds, Clinton changed course and called for conciliation with the Serbs. After the 2nd Markale massacre, in which Bosnian Serb forces reportedly shelled a crowded market-place in Sarajevo, NATO, led by the United States launched Operation Deliberate Force with a series of airstrikes against Bosnian Serb targets. In July 1995, as the tide of war was turning against the Bosnian Serbs, local Bosnian forces under the command of General Ratko Mladić forced the surrender of the Bosnian stronghold of Srebrenica, near the eastern border with Serbia. A small UN force was helpless and the defenders surrendered, with the promise that no civilians or soldiers would be harmed if they surrendered. Instead, Mladić's forces massacred over 7000 Bosnians. It was the worst massacre in Europe In 40 years, and galvanized NATO Intervention. The escalating air campaign, along with a counter-offensive by better-equipped Muslim and Croatian forces, succeeded in pressuring the Bosnian Serbs into participating in negotiations. In November 1995, The U.S. hosted peace talks between the warring parties in Dayton, Ohio Clinton put Richard Holbrooke in charge. The goal of the complex negotiations was an agreement to permanently end the three-way civil war and establish an internationally recognized, unified, democratic, multiethnic Bosnia.. The parties reached a peace agreement known as the Dayton Agreement, making Bosnia as a single state made up of two separate entities together with a central government. Debate continues into the 21st century on how successful the project was. In 2011, Serbia was forced to turn over Mladić to the United Nations, and in 2017 he was sentenced to life imprisonment after being convicted of genocide.\n\nDerek Chollet and Samantha Power argue that:\n\nAccording to historian David N. Gibbs:\n\nIn the spring of 1998, ethnic tension in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia–the state formed from the former Yugoslav republics of Serbia and Montenegro–heightened when the military forces responded in the Autonomous Province of Kosovo and Metohija. More than 90 percent of the residents of Kosovo were Muslim and ethnic Albanians, many of whom wanted independence from the country. Yugoslav forces were mobilized into province to quell Albanian rebels.\n\nThrough attempting to impose the Rambouillet Agreement, Clinton, who strongly supported the Albanians, threatened the Yugoslav administration with military strikes. On 24 March 1999, NATO, led by the United States, launched the two-month bombardment of Yugoslavia. The strikes were not limited to military installations and NATO targets included civilian targets such as factories, oil refineries, television stations and various infrastructure. The intervention, which devastated Yugoslavia, was not approved by the UN General Assembly or the UN Security Council, and was strongly opposed by both Russia] and China. It was the first time in NATO's history that its forces had attacked a sovereign country, and the first time in which air power alone won a battle. In June 1999, NATO and Yugoslav military leaders approved an international peace plan for Kosovo, and attacks were suspended after Yugoslav forces withdrew from Kosovo.\n\nClinton also sought to end the conflict in Northern Ireland by arranging a peace agreement between the nationalist and unionist factions. In 1998 former Senator George Mitchell—whom Clinton had appointed to assist in peace talks—supported an accord that became known as the Good Friday Agreement. It called for the British Parliament to devolve legislative and executive authority of the province to a new Northern Ireland Assembly, whose Executive would include members of both communities. Years of stalemate have followed the agreement, mainly due to the refusal of the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA), a nationalist paramilitary group, to decommission its weapons for some years and after that the refusal of the Democratic Unionist Party to push the process forward. Mitchell returned to the region and arranged yet another blueprint for a further peace settlement that resulted in a December 1999 formation of the power-sharing government agreed the previous year, which was to be followed by steps toward the IRA's disarmament. That agreement eventually faltered as well, although Clinton continued peace talks to prevent the peace process from collapsing completely. In 2005 the IRA decommissioned all of its arms and, in 2007, Sinn Féin expressed a willingness to support the reformed Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI). Power was restored to the Assembly in May 2007, marking renewed promise for the fulfillment of the Good Friday Agreement.\n\nFor further information on the overarching strategy of President Clinton's approach to the Middle East, particularly Iraq and Iran, see dual containment.\n\nClinton was likewise deeply involved in the Middle East peace process to negotiate peace agreements between Israel and the Palestinians, as well as with the governments of Egypt, Jordan, Syria and Lebanon. Secret negotiations mediated by Clinton between Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) Chairman Yasser Arafat led to a historic declaration of peace in September 1993, called the Oslo Accords. Clinton personally arranged for the peace accord to be signed at the White House on September 13, 1993. The agreement allowed a limited Palestinian self-rule in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. Following up after Oslo, Secretary of State Christopher encouraged Jordan's King Hussein to make a peace treaty with Israel. Christopher offered Hussein $200 million in military equipment and $700 million in debt forgiveness to sweeten the deal. On October 27, 1994, Rabin and Jordanian Prime Minister Abdelsalam al-Majali signed the Israel–Jordan peace treaty. It was the second piece treaty for Israel after Egypt. Christopher sought to obtain a Third treaty between Rabin and Syrian President Hafez al-Assad, but to no avail.\n\nThe 1993 and 1995 peace agreements between Israel and Palestine, however, did not end the conflict in the Middle East. As the peace process came to a stall, Clinton invited Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat to peace talks on the Wye River in October 1998. The two leaders signed yet another agreement, known as the Wye River Memorandum, which called for Israel to transfer more territory in the West Bank to the Palestinians. In return, the Palestinians agreed to take steps to curb terrorism. They also agreed to a timetable to negotiate a final resolution of the Palestinian fight for an independent state.\n\nAfter an abrupt outbreak of violence sparked by the agreement, however, Netanyahu refused to cede any more West Bank territory and placed new demands upon Palestine. His ceding of territory had shaken his own coalition, though, and together with other factors, this contributed to the downfall of the Netanyahu government in Israel. As a result, in May 1999 Israelis elected Ehud Barak, the leader of a political coalition that favored resuming the peace process, to replace Netanyahu as prime minister. Clinton continued to work passionately on negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. Throughout his last year in office, Clinton came close to arranging a final peace settlement but failed, according to Clinton, as a result of Arafat's reluctance. Clinton related a phone conversation he had with Arafat three days before he left office. \"You are a great man,\" Arafat said. Clinton replied, \"The hell I am. I'm a colossal failure, and you made me one.\"\n\nClinton was also confronted with problems in Iraq. In 1991, two years before Clinton became president, the United States under President George H. W. Bush participated in the Persian Gulf War to liberate Kuwait from the Iraqi occupation. In 1991, the warring parties signed a cease-fire agreement and the United Nations Security Council passed United Nations Security Council Resolution 687 requiring Iraq to eliminate its weapons of mass destruction and allow inspectors from the United Nations Special Commission (UNS-COM) to monitor the country's adherence to the agreement. In addition to UN inspections, to ensure the Iraqi compliance of Resolution 688 which called for Iraq to end its oppression of Iraqi citizens, the no-fly zones over Iraq were established by the U.S. and its allies to protect the Kurds in Iraqi Kurdistan and the Shiites in southern Iraq from aerial attacks by the Iraqi government.\n\nOn June 26, 1993, Clinton ordered a cruise missile attack on the Iraqi Intelligence Service's (IIS) principal command and control complex in Baghdad, publicly announced as retaliation for the assassination attempt by the IIS on former President George H. W. Bush while he was visiting Kuwait in April of that year to commemorate a coalition victory over Iraq in the Gulf War. Fourteen cruise missiles were launched from and nine of them launched from . Sixteen hit the target, while three struck a residential area, killing nine civilians and wounding 12 others. Four missiles were unaccounted for. This strike was in violation of international law, although that point is contentious.\n\nIn October 1994, Baghdad once again began mobilizing around 64,000 Iraqi troops near the Kuwaiti border because of their expressed frustrations of economic sanctions imposed on Iraq by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC). In response, the U.S. begins to deploy troops in the Persian Gulf to deter Iraqi aggression against Kuwait. Code-named Operation Vigilant Warrior, 1st Brigade of the Fort Stewart, Georgia-based 24th Infantry Division (Mechanized) deployed and drew pre-positioned equipment in Kuwait. The 23rd Wing's (Flying Tigers) 75th Fighter Squadron (Tigersharks) and its full complement of A-10s initially deployed from Pope AFB, North Carolina to Dhahran Air Base, Saudi Arabia, followed by the first forward deployment to Ahmad al-Jaber Air Base, Kuwait. This allowed better face-to-face coordination with tactical air control parties (TACP) assets further forward deployed at Camp Doha, Kuwait and points north. Iraq would later withdraw troops near the Kuwaiti border in response to a massive U.S. military buildup. This served to increase U.S. and Coalition resolve to contain Iraqi aggression against their neighbors in the Middle East.\n\nIn September 1996, Clinton ordered Operation Desert Strike, and ships from the Battle Group, including , and , in conjunction with B-52 bombers escorted by F-14D Tomcats from USS \"Carl Vinson\", launched 27 cruise missiles against Iraqi air defense targets in southern Iraq. A second wave of 17 was launched later that day. The missiles hit targets in and around Kut, Iskandariyah, Nasiriyah, and Tallil. This was done in response to Saddam Hussein, an Iraqi dictator, attempting to launch an Iraqi military offensive campaign in the Kurdish town of Arbil in Iraqi Kurdistan. In his 1998 State of the Union Address, Clinton warned the U.S. Congress of Hussein's possible pursuit of nuclear weapons, saying:\n\nThe UNS-COM team faced resistance from Iraq, which blocked inspections and hid deadly germ agents and warheads. Clinton then threatened military action several times when Hussein, who turned out to be Iraq's President, tried stalling the UNS-COM inspections. To weaken Hussein's grip of power, Clinton signed the Iraq Liberation Act into law on October 31, 1998, which instituted a policy of \"regime change\" against Iraq, though it explicitly stated it did not speak to the use of American military forces. Between December 16 and 19, 1998, Clinton ordered four-day period of concentrated air attacks against military installations in Iraq. This was in response to Saddam's refusal to cooperate with UN inspectors. After the bombing, Hussein blocked any further UN inspections and announced its attempt to shoot down Coalition aircraft in the no-fly zones over Iraq. For several years afterward, U.S. and Coalition aircraft routinely attacked hostile Iraqi defense installations in Iraq, in response to what the Clinton administration claimed were \"provocations\" by the Iraqi military, including antiaircraft fire and radar locks on U.S. and Coalition aircraft.\n\nThe UN sanctions against Iraq that the United Nations Security Council imposed after the Gulf War remained in place during the Clinton administration. These sanctions were alleged to have contributed to increased child mortality there, although this was disputed. Albright later wrote \"Saddam Hussein could have prevented any child from suffering simply by meeting his obligations. Recent research has shown that commonly cited data were fabricated by the Iraqi government and that \"there was no major rise in child mortality in Iraq after 1990 and during the period of the sanctions.\"\n\nPresident Clinton's foreign policy team initially viewed Iran with suspicion and sought to contain Iranian ambitions as part of the dual containment strategy. On May 6, 1995, Clinton signed Executive Order 12957, which implemented tight oil and trade sanctions on Iran and made it illegal for American corporations or their foreign subsidiaries to participate in any contract \"for the financing of the development of petroleum resources located in Iran.\" On May 6, 1995, President Clinton issued Executive Order 12959, which banned almost all trade between U.S. businesses and the Iranian government with the exception of informational materials.\nA year before, the President declared that Iran was a \"state sponsor of terrorism\" and a \"rogue state,\" marking the first time that an American President used that term.\n\nIn 1996, the Clinton administration agreed to compensate the Iranian government for the deaths of 254 Iranians in a 1988 incident in which an Iranian commercial passenger plane was shot down by mistake by an American warship the USS \"Vincennes\". In Clinton's second term as President, beginning in 1997, the administration began to take a softer approach towards Iran, particularly after the election of reformist Mohammad Khatami as President of Iran.\n\nIn 1995 Albright and Clinton mandated what could be considered an apology to the Iranian people for the 1953 CIA-assisted coup that overthrew the Prime Minister, Mohammed Mossadegh, and replaced him with the Shah. Albright and Clinton also acknowledged that the U.S.-backed government of the Shah \"oppressed political opponents.\" In the months that followed, an Iranian professional wrestling team was allowed entry into the U.S. to face American teams, and a significant increase in cultural and academic overtures were made between the two countries. In 1998, Iran and the United States faced each other in a game at the FIFA World Cup that year (Iran beat the US by 2–1). Khatami also encouraged Americans to travel to Iran for vacational purposes, citing the city of Esfahan, a popular location for tourists where, according to CNN, several \"well-preserved\" sites often \"surprise\" tourists. In a well-publicized 1997 interview, Khatami refused to fully apologize for the '79 hostage crisis in which 52 American diplomats were held hostage for 444 days yet did offer to open up a dialogue with the American people.\n\nClinton at one point offered to open up an official dialogue with the Iranian government and renew diplomatic relations with the country after 20 years of no such relations. However, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei refused to accept the offer for dialogue unless the U.S. formally withdrew its support for Israel, lifted the '95 sanctions imposed on the country, stopped accusing Tehran of attempting to develop nuclear weaponry, and officially ended its policy of considering Iran a \"rogue state that sponsors terrorism.\" Although Clinton did privately weigh the idea of revoking the executive orders he signed in the spring of 1995, the administration refused to comply with Iran's other demands.\n\nEventually, President Clinton did ease restrictions on export of food and medical equipment to Iran. Albright announced in 2000 that the U.S. would begin to \"enable Americans to purchase and import carpets and food products such as dried fruits, nuts, and caviar from Iran\" and also was confident that Iran would provide cooperation with the United States in the battle against narcotics and international drug abuse. In 1995, the State Department warned U.S. citizens against traveling in Iran due to that government's rampant anti-Americanism yet five years later Albright decided to repeal this warning.\n\nBy the time Clinton left office in January 2001, it was clear that relations between Iran and the United States had significantly cooled despite the fact that President Khatami and President Clinton failed to initiate an official diplomatic dialogue between the nations, something which has not existed since the 1979 hostage crisis.\n\nIn 1994, the Clinton administration announced that it was lifting the trade embargo on Vietnam, citing progress on the Vietnam War POW/MIA issue regarding the search for American soldiers listed as missing in action and the remains of those killed in action, as well as the market reforms that Vietnam implemented from 1986. On July 10, 1995, Clinton announced that his administration was restoring full diplomatic relations with Vietnam, citing the continued progress in determining the whereabouts of MIA's and locating the remains of soldiers killed in the Vietnam War. Clinton nonetheless stressed that the search for Americans would continue, especially for the soldiers listed as \"discrepancies;\" namely 55 American soldiers believed to still be alive when they went missing. On November 16, 2000, Clinton arrived in Hanoi with his wife, Senator-elect Hillary Clinton and daughter Chelsea shortly before his second term in office ended. The next day Clinton spoke to the Vietnamese people publicly about both the conflict as well as the promise renewed relations meant.\n\nIn 1995, tense relations with China and the imprisonment of an innocent American in the Communist nation, led to pressure for the U.S. to boycott the 1995 United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing. The U.S. delegation, chaired by First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton and Madeleine Albright, then the United States Ambassador to the United Nations, was assigned with the task of confronting China about its human rights abuses, but not so strongly as to damage sensitive relations. Hillary Rodham Clinton gave a successful speech before the entire Chinese leadership and the Conference where she, without bringing up China or any particular nation, attacked human rights abuses against humanity in general, and women and girls in particular.\n\nIn 1995-96 the Third Taiwan Strait Crisis happened between Taiwan and China. Chinese concerns about the upcoming Taiwanese presidential election as well as the possibility of the declaration of Taiwanese independence led to a series of missile tests right off the coast of Taiwan that could have escalated out of control. The Clinton administration responded in March 1996 by staging the biggest display of American military might in Asia since the Vietnam War. Numerous aircraft carrier groups were stationed near Taiwan. and her group as well as sailed through the Taiwan Strait in a demonstration of support for Taiwan. Eventually a ceasefire was declared and China declared the 'missile tests' to be completed.\n\nNorth Korea's feared aim to create nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles was a serious problem for the Clinton Administration. In 1994, North Korea, a signatory of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, refused to allow international inspectors to review two nuclear waste sites. The inspectors wanted to see if North Korea was in violation of the treaty since they were suspected of reprocessing spent fuel into plutonium, which could be used to manufacture nuclear weapons. Despite diplomatic pressure and repeated warnings by Clinton, North Korea refused to allow the inspections and even raised the prospect of war with South Korea, an ally of the United States. In 1994, Clinton also considered a US military strike on bombing the Yongbyon nuclear reactor. He was advised that if war broke out, it could cost 52,000 US and 490,000 South Korean military casualties in the first three months, as well as a large number of civilian casualties.\n\nWith private diplomacy by former president Jimmy Carter, the Clinton administration reached a breakthrough with North Korea in October 1994 when North Korea agreed to shut down the nuclear plants that could produce materials for weapons if the United States would help North Korea build plants that generated electricity with light-water nuclear reactors. These reactors would be more efficient and their waste could not easily be used for nuclear weaponry. The United States also agreed to supply fuel oil for electricity until the new plants were built, and North Korea agreed to allow inspection of the old waste sites when construction began on the new plants. KEDO was established based on this agreement in 1995.\n\nThis 1994 Agreed Framework, as it was known, kept the Yongbyon plutonium enrichment plant closed and under international inspection until 2002. However, economic supports by the agreement and KEDO gave an advantage to North Korea, and North Korea broke off from the treaty and restarted plutonium production. In October 2006, North Korea tested its first nuclear weapon. President Bush warned that he was not pleased by such actions as it is he invited the international community to take a stand. As a result, North Korea, the United States, Russia, China were involved in negotiations and North Korea agreed to close down their nuclear station temporarily.\n\nThe 1991 Haitian coup d'état, led by Lieutenant General Raoul Cédras, had ousted the country's elected president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who barely escaped to the United States. Shortly thereafter tens of thousands of Haitians also tried to flee to the United States in leaky boats.; in 1993 increased opposition to Aristide supporters would increase these numbers. Relatively few refugees would be allowed legal entry, with most being sent back to Haiti or Guantanamo by the United States Coast Guard. Clinton had previously criticized former President George H. W. Bush for doing much the same.\n\nAmerican opinion generally favored Aristide but opposed military intervention. Clinton was highly sensitive to his black constituency, and the black leadership in Congress pushed for action. Vice President Gore and advisor Anthony Lake strongly agreed, while Sandy Berger, Strobe Talbott, Warren Christopher and Defense Secretary William Perry went along. Clinton agreed, but worried about going against the democratic will in his own country to enforce democracy in some other country. On September 15, 1994, Clinton tried to rally American public opinion with a forceful televised address from the Oval Office. He denounced the military junta as armed thugs engaged in \"a reign of terror, executing children, raping women, killing priests.\" Clinton demanded it leave immediately. As American warplanes were being readied for an invasion, suddenly former President Jimmy Carter proposed to negotiate a settlement. Clinton agreed that Carter, Colin Powell, and Senator Sam Nunn would fly to Haiti to convince the junta to leave. In a matter of 48 hours, Carter's group achieved the desired transfer of power without any violence. In Operation Uphold Democracy American forces landed after the departure of the junta. Anthony Lake attributed the success to a combination of power and diplomacy. Without Clinton's threat of force, the junta would never have left. Without Carter, there would have been fighting. Aristide returned to power, and Clinton's prestige was enhanced. Nevertheless, six years later conditions were still terrible in Haiti. \n\nAfter securing the NAFTA treaty that integrated the Mexican and American economies, Clinton faced yet another foreign crisis in early 1995. The Mexican peso began to fall sharply and threatened the collapse of the Mexican economy. Clinton feared that a collapse would have a negative impact on the United States because of their close economic ties. He proposed a plan to address the financial crisis in Mexico, but many in Congress, hearting that constituents would not favor aid money to Mexico, rejected the plan. In response, Clinton used executive authority to create a $20 billion loan package for Mexico to restore international confidence in the Mexican economy. The loan Went through and Mexico completed its loan payments to the United States in January 1997, three years ahead of schedule. However, issues such as drug smuggling and immigration continued to strain relations.\n\nAmerican foreign policy toward Cuba had been hostile since Fidel Castro aligned the country with the Soviet Union in 1960. Clinton basically continue the policy especially regarding trade embargoes, but he faced a difficult problem on what to do with Cuban refugees trying to reach asylum in the United States.\n\nAfter negotiations with representatives of the Cuban government, Clinton revealed in May 1995 a controversial policy reversing the decades-old policy of automatically granting asylum to Cuban refugees. Approximately 20,000 Cuban refugees detained at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba were to be admitted to the United States over a period of three months. In order to prevent a mass exodus of refugees to the United States, all future refugees would be returned to Cuba. The influx of refugees into Guantanamo Bay overwhelmed the facilities, necessitating Operations Safe Haven and Safe Passage involving Panama. Clinton also implemented the wet foot/dry foot policy for Cuban refugees. This policy meant that Cuban refugees caught at sea were returned to Cuba (wet foot), while Cuban refugees that made it to dry land (dry foot) were allowed to stay in the U.S. This changed the refugees' tactics from slow rafts to speed boats.\n\nRelations between the United States and Cuba deteriorated in February 1996 when Cuba shot down two American civilian planes. Cuba accused the planes of violating Cuban airspace. Clinton tightened sanctions against Cuba and suspended charter flights from the United States to Cuba, hoping this would cripple Cuba's tourism industry.\n\nIn their response to the incident, the U.S. Congress passed the Helms–Burton Act in March 1996. The bill strengthened an embargo against imports of Cuban products. Title III, however, made the bill controversial because it allowed American citizens whose property was seized during and after the 1959 Cuban Revolution to sue in American courts foreign companies that later invested in those properties. Title III sparked an immediate uproar from countries such as Mexico, Canada, and members of the European Union because they believed that they would be penalized for doing business with Cuba. In response, Clinton repeatedly suspended Title III of the legislation (the act gave the president the right to exercise this option every six months).\n\nClinton softened his Cuban policy in 1998 and 1999. In March 1998, at the urging of Pope John Paul II, Clinton lifted restrictions and allowed humanitarian charter flights to resume. He also took steps to increase educational, religious, and humanitarian contacts in Cuba. The U.S. government decided to allow Cuban citizens to receive more money from American friends and family members and to buy more American food and medicine.\n\nOn February 26, 1993, thirty-six days after Clinton took office, terrorists who the CIA would later reveal were working under the direction of Osama bin Laden detonated a timed car bomb in the parking garage below Tower One of the World Trade Center in New York City (see the World Trade Center bombing). Clinton responded by ordering his National Security Council, under the direction of Anthony Lake, and the FBI to find and punish those responsible. The FBI was able to quickly identify the vehicle used in the bomb from a remnant found in the rubble: a Ryder rental van, which had been reported stolen in Jersey City, New Jersey the day before. The truck was rented by Mohammed Salameh, whom the FBI immediately detained. Similar evidence led to the arrests of other plotters behind the attack, including Nidal Ayyad, Mahmoud Abouhalima, Ahmad Ajaj, and Ramzi Yousef—who was identified as the key player in the bombing. All men were tried and convicted for the bombing and other terrorists activities.\n\nIn his 1995 State of the Union address, Clinton proposed \"comprehensive legislation to strengthen our hand in combating terrorists, whether they strike at home or abroad.\" He sent legislation to Congress to extend federal criminal jurisdiction, make it easier to deport terrorists, and act against terrorist fund-raising. Following the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, Clinton amended that legislation to increase wiretap and electronic surveillance authority for the FBI, require explosives to be equipped with traceable taggants, and appropriate more funds to the FBI, CIA, and local police.\n\nIn June 1995, Clinton issued Presidential Decision Directive 39, which stated that the United States \"should deter, defeat and respond vigorously to all terrorist attacks on our territory and against our citizens.\" Furthermore, it called terrorism both a \"matter of national security\" and a crime. The implementation of his proposals led to a substantial increase in counter-terrorism funds for the FBI and CIA.\n\nIn 1996, the CIA established a special unit of officers to analyze intelligence received about bin Laden and plan operations against him, coined the \"Bin Laden Issue Station\". It was this unit that first realized bin Laden was more than just a terrorist financier, but a leader of a global network with operations based in Afghanistan. Given these findings, the NSC encouraged the Department of State to \"pay more attention\" to Afghanistan and its governing unit, the Taliban, which had received funding from bin Laden. The State Department requested the Taliban to expel bin Laden from the country, noting that he was a sponsor of terrorism and publicly urged Muslims to kill Americans. The Taliban responded that they did not know his whereabouts and, even if they did, he was \"not a threat to the United States.\" The CIA's counter-terrorism division quickly began drafting plans to capture and remove bin Laden from the country. However, Marine General Anthony Zinni and some in the State Department protested the move, saying that the United States should focus instead on ending the Afghan civil war and the Taliban's human rights abuses.\n\nIn 1998, Clinton appointed Richard Clarke—who until then served in a drugs and counter-terrorism division of the CIA—to lead an interagency comprehensive counter-terrorism operation, the Counter-terrorism Security Group (CSG). The goal of the CSG was to \"detect, deter, and defend against\" terrorist attacks. Additionally, Clinton appointed Clarke to sit on the cabinet-level Principals Committee when it met on terrorism issues.\n\nClinton's Counter-terrorism Center began drafting a plan to ambush bin Laden's compound in Kandahar. The CIA mapped the compound and identified the houses of bin Laden's wives and the location where he most likely slept. The plan was relatively simple, at least on paper. Tribals would \"subdue\" the guards, enter the compound, take bin Laden to a desert outside Kandahar, and hand him over to another group of tribals. This second group would carry him to a desert landing strip—which had already been tested—where a CIA plane would take him to New York for arraignment. When they completed a draft plan, they ran through two rehearsals in the United States. Confident that the plan would work, the Counter-terrorism Center of the CIA sought the approval of the White House. While they acknowledged that the plan was risky, they stated that there was \"a risk in not acting\" because \"sooner or later, bin Laden will attack U.S. interests, perhaps using WMD.\"\n\nClarke reviewed the plans for Sandy Berger, the National Security Director, and told him that it was in the \"very early stages of development\" and stressed the importance of only targeting bin Laden, not the entire compound. The NSC told the CIA to begin preparing the necessary legal documents to execute the raid.\n\nThe senior management of the CIA was skeptical of the plan, and despite objections, canceled the operation, fearing that the risk to their operatives and financial costs were too high. It is unclear whether or not Clinton was aware of the plan.\n\nAs the Counter-terrorism Center continued to track bin Laden, they learned in 1998 that the Saudi government had bin Laden cells within the country that were planning attacks on U.S. forces. CIA Director George Tenet, encouraged by the Saudi's show of force against bin Laden, asked them to assist in the fight against bin Laden. Clinton named Tenet as his informal \"personal representative\" to work with Saudi Arabia on terrorism. The Saudis promised Tenet that they would do everything they could to convince the Taliban to release bin Laden for trial in America or elsewhere. The Saudi intelligence chief, Prince Turki bin Faisal, held various meetings with Taliban chief Mullah Omar and other leaders and received assurance that bin Laden would be removed. Omar, however, reneged on that promise.\n\nOn August 7, 1998, Bin Laden struck again, this time with simultaneous bombings on the U.S. embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. (see above) The CIA, having confirmed bin Laden was behind the attack, informed Clinton that terrorist leaders were planning to meet at a camp near Khowst, to plan future attacks. According to Tenet, \"several hundred,\" including bin Laden, would attend. On August 20, Clinton ordered cruise missile strikes on Al-Qaeda terrorist training camps in Afghanistan and a pharmaceutical factory in Khartoum, Sudan, where bin Laden was suspected of manufacturing biological weapons. While the military hit their targets, bin Laden was not killed. The CIA estimated that they had missed bin Laden by \"a few hours.\"\n\nAt the time of the attacks, Clinton was embroiled in the Lewinsky scandal (see below). This led many Republicans in Congress to accuse the president of \"wagging the dog\"—launching a military attack simply to distract the public from his personal problems. Clinton and his principals, however, insist that the decision was made solely on the basis of national security.\n\nAfter the attacks failed, Clinton moved his focus to diplomatic pressure. On the advice of the State Department, Clinton encouraged Pakistan, whose military intelligence agency was a patron of the Taliban, to pressure the Taliban to remove bin Laden. After numerous meetings with Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, the Pakistani's would still not cooperate. Sharif eventually agreed to allow the United States to train Pakistani special forces to find bin Laden. When Sharif was ousted by Pervez Musharraf, the plan was abandoned.\n\nAfter encouragement by Richard Clarke, Clinton issued an executive order in July 1999 declaring the Taliban regime as a state sponsor of terrorism. This was followed in October 1999 by Resolution 1267 sponsored by the United States placing economic and travel sanctions on the Taliban. The Taliban, however, stood by bin Laden, and the United States, along with Russia, proposed yet another UN resolution (Resolution 1333), this time imposing an embargo an arms shipments to the Taliban. The move was meant to weaken the Taliban in their fight against the Northern Alliance in their civil strife. However, the resolution did little to limit the illegal flow of arms from Pakistan.\n\nIn August 1999, Clinton signed a Memorandum of Notification ordering the CIA to develop another plan to capture bin Laden, and giving the CIA the authority to order bin Laden be killed.\n\nNear the end of 1999, the Clinton administration, working with the government of Jordan, detected and thwarted a planned terrorist attack to detonate bombs at various New Year millennium celebrations around the world. The CIA confirmed that bin Laden was behind the plot, which was disrupted just days before the New Year. While many credited Clinton's new CSG for playing a role in the foiling of these plots, critics claim it was \"mostly luck.\"\n\nThe CIA informed Clinton that they feared the thwarted attacks were just part of a larger series of attacks planned for the new year. Clinton asked Clarke and the CSG to draft plans to \"deter and disrupt\" al Qaeda attacks.\n\nOn October 12, 2000, terrorists bombed USS \"Cole\" in the harbor of the Yemeni port of Aden. The attack on , a U.S. Navy destroyer, killed 17 Navy sailors, and there was no clear indication during the last months of Clinton's term of who was responsible. The CIA reported that they had \"no definitive answer on [the] crucial question of outside direction of the attack—how and by whom. Clinton did not think it would be wise to launch an attack based on a \"preliminary judgment,\" stating that he would have taken further action had he received definitive intelligence. The CIA was eventually able to confirm bin Laden's involvement with certainty a week after the Bush administration took office.\n\nAs Clinton's second term drew to a close, the CSG drafted a comprehensive policy paper entitled \"Strategy for Eliminating the Threat from the Jihadist Networks of al Qida: Status and Prospects.\" The paper outlined a method to \"roll back\" al Qaeda over \"a period of three to five years.\" Clarke stated that while \"continued anti-al Qida operations at the current level will prevent some attacks, [it] will not seriously attrit their ability to plan and conduct attacks.\" This policy paper was forwarded to the incoming Bush administration.\n\nIn the years since September 11, 2001, Clinton has been subject to criticism that he failed to capture Osama bin Laden as President. In a September 24, 2006, interview with Fox News' Chris Wallace on \"Fox News Sunday\", Clinton challenged his critics. According to Clinton, he faced criticism from various conservatives during his administration for being too obsessed with Bin Laden. Clinton also noted that his administration created the first comprehensive anti-terrorist operation, led by Richard Clarke—whom Clinton accuses the Bush Administration of demoting. Clinton also said he worked hard to try to kill Bin Laden. Former international negotiator and current businessman, financier and media commentator Mansoor Ijaz claimed that from 1996–1998, he had opened up unofficial negotiations with Sudan to lift terrorism sanctions from that country in exchange for intelligence information about the terrorist groups Islamic Jihad, Hezbollah and Hamas. He claimed that Sudan was also prepared to offer custody of terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden, who had been living in the country and launching operations. According to Ijaz, neither Clinton nor National Security Advisor Sandy Berger responded to the situation. Bin Laden later left Sudan and established his operations in Afghanistan under the protection of the Taliban and, with his network, planned out terrorist attacks against American interests worldwide, including attacks on American embassies in Tunisia and Sudan as well as the bombing of USS \"Cole\". The most infamous were the attacks of September 11, 2001 that occurred under Clinton's successor, George W. Bush nine months after Clinton left office. However, the 9/11 Commission Report later found no credible evidence to support the Sudan custody offer as the American Ambassador to the Sudan had no legal basis to ask for custody due to no indictment against Bin Laden:\n\nSudan's minister of defense, Fatih Erwa, has claimed that Sudan offered to hand Bin Ladin over to the United States. The Commission has found no credible evidence that this was so. Ambassador Carney had instructions only to push the Sudanese to expel Bin Ladin. Ambassador Carney had no legal basis to ask for more from the Sudanese since, at the time, there was no indictment outstanding. \n\nClinton acknowledged that, following the bombing on USS \"Cole\", his administration prepared battle plans to execute a military operation in Afghanistan to overthrow the Taliban and search for bin Laden. The plans were never implemented because, according to Clinton, the CIA and FBI refused to certify that bin Laden was responsible for the bombing until after he left office and the military was unable to receive basing rights in Uzbekistan. In relation to Afghanistan, Clinton criticized the Bush Administration when he said \"We do have a government that thinks Afghanistan is one-seventh as important as Iraq\". Clinton also said that his administration left the plans and a comprehensive anti-terror strategy with the new Bush Administration in January 2001.\n\nIn 2014, a September 10, 2001, audio containing Clinton's conservation at a business center at Melbourne, Australia, 10 hours before the 9/11 attacks regarding the topic of terrorism was revealed. In this audio, Clinton stated that according to intelligence agencies, Bin Laden was located in Kandahar, Afghanistan, in December 1998, and thus, a missile strike was proposed. However, he decided not to kill Bin Laden because of conflicting reports of intelligence information to his true whereabouts as well as the potential risk for civilian casualties. He stated that, \"I'm just saying, you know, if I were Osama bin Laden—he's a very smart guy, I've spent a lot of time thinking about him—and I nearly got him once.\" And then he said that, \"I nearly got him. And I could have killed him, but I would have to destroy a little town called Kandahar in Afghanistan and kill 300 innocent women and children, and then I would have been no better than him. And so I didn't do it.\"\n\nIn 1996 Clinton signed the United States onto the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT), a landmark international agreement that prohibited all signatory nations from testing nuclear weapons. The following year, he sent the treaty to the Senate for ratification. Conservative Republicans took the lead in defeating the treaty in October 1999 by vote of 48 in favor and 51 against, far short of the two thirds It needed to pass. International reaction to the Senate's action was uniformly negative, and the rejection was a political setback for Clinton, who had lobbied actively for its approval. One scholar blames the failure on:\n\nDespite the rejection of the treaty, Clinton promised that the United States would continue to maintain a policy of not testing nuclear weapons, which had been in place since 1992.\n\nThroughout the 1990s, the Congress refused to appropriate funds for the United States to pay its dues to the United Nations. By 1999 the United States owed the UN at least $1 billion in back dues. That same year Clinton reached a compromise with Republicans in Congress to submit more than $800 million in back dues. Republicans in the House of Representatives had insisted that UN debt repayments be accompanied by restrictions on U.S. funding for international groups that lobbied for abortion rights in foreign countries. Clinton had vetoed similar measures in the past, but he agreed to the restrictions when faced with the prospect that the United States would lose its vote in the UN General Assembly for nonpayment of dues.\n\nDuring his first term, argues two political scientists:\n\nPublic opinion in the United States about the role the country should have in the Bosnian genocide was negative. A series of Gallup polls through 1995-1997 showed that public disapproval of military intervention in Bosnia hovered around 52%, with the only outlier occurring in January 1997, where 58% of the population disapproved. The polls also found that public opposition was bipartisan, with 49% of Republicans and around 40% of Democrats and Independents disapproving.\n\nAmericans were even less supportive of involvement in Kosovo. A Gallup poll in March 1999 showed that about half of the American public supported NATO air strikes in Yugoslavia. That was the weakest support for any American combat mission in the past decade. Fewer people were following the news about US involvement in Kosovo, falling from 43% to 32% in two months.\n\nThe public and the media paid little attention to the Rwanda genocide. One reason why the United States did not enter Rwanda is because of the public reluctance to enter combat after the Vietnam War.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7736921", "categories": ["History of the foreign relations of the United States", "United States foreign policy", "Public policy of the Clinton administration"], "title": "Foreign policy of the Bill Clinton administration"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736959", "text": "Matter of public importance\n\nA matter of public importance (MPI) is a term used in the Australian Parliament where a subject is put forward for debate by the parliament. The opportunity is defined under standing order 75.\n\nIt can be put forward by a Senator in the Senate or a member of the House of Representatives. This must be supported by a certain number of Senators or Members before the discussion can begin. In the Australian Senate, five Senators are required to provide support by standing.\n\nMPI's are often used by opposition parties to draw attention to government failures or areas that are politically sensitive for the government.\n\nIn 2007, the conservative Liberal-National coalition government signalled controversial changes the MPI procedure, formalizing speaking times and reducing the amount of time that independents have to speak. A single Senator is limited to 10 minutes discussion.\n\n", "id": "7736959", "categories": ["Parliament of Australia"], "title": "Matter of public importance"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736985", "text": "Rutanya Alda\n\nRutanya Alda (born October 13, 1942) is a Latvian-American actress. She began her career in the late 1960s, and would go on to have supporting parts in \"The Deer Hunter\" (1978), \"Rocky II\" (1979), and the cult film \"Mommie Dearest\" (1981). She also appeared in a lead role in the horror films \"\" (1982) and \"Girls Nite Out\" (1984).\n\nRutanya Alda was born as Rutanya Skrastiņa (Rūta Skrastiņa) in Riga, Latvia, the daughter of Vera (\"née\" Ozoliņš), a businesswoman, and Jānis Skrastiņš, a poet. Alda spent the first seven years of her life in a displaced persons camp in Germany amidst World War II. She then relocated with her family to the United States, briefly living in Chicago before settling in Flagstaff, Arizona.\n\nWith a career spanning nearly 50 years in show business and over a hundred roles, Alda might be best known for her performances in \"The Deer Hunter\" as Steven's wife, Angela, as well as for the cult classic \"Mommie Dearest\", as loyal Crawford housekeeper Carol Ann, and \"\", having been nominated for the Golden Raspberry Award two years in succession (1982 and 1983) for the latter roles. She has also won a Clio and is a member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Additionally, Alda has appeared in numerous television programs, such as \"Cold Case\", \"\" and as a featured character in the Ron Perlman/Linda Hamilton TV series \"Beauty and the Beast\", as well as commercials and stage work.\n\nIn 2009, she appeared in \"Stolen\", playing the elder version of Jessica Chastain's character, and had a supporting role in the horror film \"Late Phases\" (2014). Between 2014 and 2016, Alda appeared in the web series \"Old Dogs & New Tricks\".\n\nShe was married to actor Richard Bright from 1977 until his death in 2006, when he was hit by a bus in New York City. They had one son, Jeremy.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7736985", "categories": ["1942 births", "American television actresses", "Living people", "American people of Latvian descent", "Latvian World War II refugees", "20th-century American actresses", "Latvian emigrants to the United States", "American film actresses", "People from Riga"], "title": "Rutanya Alda"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737005", "text": "Chris Humphreys\n\nChris Humphreys is a British actor, playwright and novelist. Born in Toronto, Ontario as the grandson of actor Cecil Humphreys, he was raised in Los Angeles, California until the age of seven and then grew up in the United Kingdom. For acting he is best known for his role in \"The Bill\" where he played PC Richard Turnham from 1989 to 1990. He has also been in \"A.D.\", \"Zorro\", \"Coronation Street\", \"Hawkeye\", \"Dangerfield\", \"\", \"Goodnight Sweetheart\", \"Wycliffe\", \"Silent Witness\", and \"The Core\".\n\nHe publishes historical adventure novels and young adult fantasy novels under the name C.C. Humphreys. The main character for his \"Jack Absolute\" series is based on the main character of the play \"The Rivals\" by Richard Brinsley Sheridan.\n\nIn 2017, Humphreys was interviewed for The Bill Podcast, sharing memories from his time making \"The Bill\" as well as stories about his life and career in general.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7737005", "categories": ["British male television actors", "21st-century British male writers", "21st-century British novelists", "British male dramatists and playwrights", "British historical novelists", "Year of birth missing (living people)", "Living people", "British dramatists and playwrights", "British male novelists", "Writers from Toronto"], "title": "Chris Humphreys"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737010", "text": "Androgen replacement therapy\n\nAndrogen replacement therapy (ART), often referred to as testosterone replacement therapy (TRT), is a form of hormone therapy in which androgens, often testosterone, are replaced. ART is often prescribed to counter the effects of male hypogonadism. It typically involves the administration of testosterone through injections, skin creams, patches, gels, or subcutaneous pellets.\n\nART is also prescribed to lessen the effects or delay the onset of normal male aging. However, this is controversial and is the subject of ongoing clinical trials. As men enter middle age they may notice changes caused by a relative decline in testosterone: fewer erections, fatigue, thinning skin, declining muscle mass and strength, and/or more body fat. Dissatisfaction with these changes causes some middle age men to seek ART.\n\nAndrogen replacement is the classic treatment of hypogonadism. It is also used in men who have lost the ability to produce androgens due to disease or its treatment.\n\nThe risks of diabetes and of testosterone deficiency in men over 45 (i.e., hypogonadism, specifically hypoandrogenism) are strongly correlated. Testosterone replacement therapies have been shown to improve blood glucose management. Still, \"it is prudent not to start testosterone therapy in men with diabetes solely for the purpose of improving metabolic control if they show no signs and symptoms of hypogonadism.\"\n\nAndrogen replacement is used in postmenopausal women: the indications are to increase sexual desire; and to prevent or treat osteoporosis. The androgens used for androgen replacement in women include testosterone (and esters), prasterone (dehydroepiandrosterone; DHEA) (and the ester prasterone enanthate), methyltestosterone, nandrolone decanoate, and tibolone, among others.\n\nThe Food and Drug Administration (FDA) stated in 2015 that neither the benefits nor the safety of testosterone have been established for low testosterone levels due to aging. The FDA has required that testosterone labels include warning information about the possibility of an increased risk of heart attacks and stroke.\n\nOn January 31, 2014, reports of strokes, heart attacks, and deaths in men taking testosterone-replacement led the FDA to announce that it would be investigating this issue. The FDA's action followed three peer-reviewed studies of increased cardiovascular events and deaths. Due to an increased rate of adverse cardiovascular events compared to a placebo group, a randomized trial stopped early. Also, in November 2013, a study reported an increase in deaths and heart attacks in older men. Even after a correction was published, the \"Androgen Study Group\", a group with many members who have relationships with drug companies in the testosterone market, requested JAMA to retract the article as misleading due to substantial residual errors. Concerns have been raised that testosterone was being widely marketed without the benefit of data on efficacy and safety from large randomized controlled trials. As a result of the \"potential for adverse cardiovascular outcomes\", the FDA announced, in September 2014, a review of the appropriateness and safety of testosterone replacement therapy.\n\nThere are several artificial androgens, many of which are manipulations of the testosterone molecule referred to as anabolic-androgenic steroids. Androgen replacement is administered by patch, tablet, pill, cream or gel; or depot injections given into fat or muscle.\n\nOther significant adverse effects of testosterone supplementation include acceleration of pre-existing prostate cancer growth in individuals who have undergone androgen deprivation; increased hematocrit, which can require venipuncture in order to treat; and, exacerbation of sleep apnea. Adverse effects may also include minor side-effects such as acne and oily skin, as well as, significant hair loss and/or thinning of the hair, which may be prevented with 5-alpha reductase inhibitors ordinarily used for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia, such as finasteride. Exogenous testosterone may also cause suppression of spermatogenesis, leading to, in some cases, infertility. It is recommended that physicians screen for prostate cancer with a digital rectal exam and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level before starting therapy, and monitor PSA and hematocrit levels closely during therapy.\n\nSome studies argue that ART increases the risk of prostate cancer, although the results are not conclusive.\n\nAs of September 2014, testosterone replacement therapy has been under review for appropriateness and safety by the Food and Drug Administration due to the \"potential for adverse cardiovascular outcomes\".\n\nIn the United States usage increased from 0.5% in 2002 to 3.2% in 2013 and have since decreased to 1.7% in 2016.\n\nA UK study in 2013 showed that prescriptions for testosterone replacement, particularly transdermal products, almost doubled between 2000 and 2010.\n\nTestosterone is being investigated as therapy for the following conditions:\n\n\n", "id": "7737010", "categories": ["Endocrine procedures"], "title": "Androgen replacement therapy"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737033", "text": "Skilligan's Island\n\nSkilligan's Island is the fourth studio album by American rapper Thirstin Howl III, who also served as producer and executive producer for the album. It was released on July 23, 2002 through Landspeed Records.\n\n\"Skilligan's Island\" was also produced by Steve Boston, P.F. Cuttin' (who also mixed the album), DJ Spinna (who also mixed the album along with P.F. Cuttin'), and Will Tell. Guest appearances on this album include Disco, Unique London, Big Boo, Rack-Lo, Master Fool, Cita, Eminem, Father Time, and God Forbid, among others.\n\nThis album was composed by Thirstin Howl III, L. Michael Smith, Angel Cruz, and Eminem, as credited for the album on AllMusic.\n", "id": "7737033", "categories": ["2002 albums"], "title": "Skilligan's Island"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737040", "text": "Marathon Rowing Championship\n\nThe Marathon Rowing Championship is a continuous rowing regatta on the Cane River Lake in Natchitoches, Louisiana. Northwestern State University is the official host of the regatta. The Marathon begins near the Melrose Plantation and ends at Front Street in Natchitoches. The regatta is open to all sculling and sweep-oar rowing boats. On the day of the Marathon, the Cane River is open only to competitors.\n\nThe regatta is much longer than most head races, but shorter than the Boston Rowing Marathon. Normally, the races with the longest distance that competitive crews enter are called head races (for example the Head of the Charles) and are usually around long. The majority of crews do not even practice on bodies of water that allow them to row without stopping and turning around (usually due to lake size or the presence of a river dam or lock).\n\nThe Marathon Rowing Championship did not take place in 2010 or 2011 due to low water during an extreme regional drought.\n\nThe record time for this event is 2 hours, 31 minutes, 20 seconds set in 2008. A more typical time it takes to complete the course is 3 to 4 hours.\n\n", "id": "7737040", "categories": ["Annual sporting events in the United States", "Northwestern State University", "Endurance games", "Rowing regattas", "College rowing competitions in the United States", "Rowing competitions in the United States", "Tourist attractions in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana"], "title": "Marathon Rowing Championship"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737056", "text": "Mike Legg\n\nMike Legg (born May 25, 1975) is a Canadian former ice hockey player. He is most famous for a goal he scored while playing for the University of Michigan, in a 1996 NCAA Tournament game against the University of Minnesota, in which he picked the puck up onto his stick behind the net and wrapped it around into the top corner of the net. The goal was widely recognized around the hockey world; Legg was awarded \"Goal of the Year\" by Inside Hockey and the stick he used was donated to the Hockey Hall of Fame. This move is often referred to as a 'Michigan,' and has since been attempted by many other players, including Ryan Getzlaf and Tyler Ennis. Legg originally learned it from Bill Armstrong. Using the Michigan in a full-speed variation, Mikael Granlund scored a goal at the 2011 IIHF World Championship semifinal versus Russia, helping Finland win gold.\n", "id": "7737056", "categories": ["Canadian expatriate ice hockey players in Finland", "Canadian ice hockey right wingers", "San Antonio Iguanas players", "Dallas Stallions players", "Augusta Lynx players", "Fort Wayne Komets players", "HIFK (ice hockey) players", "Sportspeople from London, Ontario", "KalPa players", "Living people", "Michigan Wolverines men's ice hockey players", "1975 births", "Utah Grizzlies (AHL) players", "Canadian expatriate ice hockey players in the United States", "New Jersey Devils draft picks", "Ice hockey people from Ontario"], "title": "Mike Legg"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737069", "text": "United States House Education Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Investment\n\nThe House Subcommittee on Higher Education and Higher Education and Workforce Investment is a standing subcommittee within the United States House Committee on Education and the Workforce. It was formerly known as the Subcommittee on 21st Century Competitiveness.\n\nFrom the Official Subcommittee website, the Subcommittee's jurisdiction includes:\n\nEducation and workforce development beyond the high school level, including but not limited to higher education generally, postsecondary student assistance and employment services, and the Higher Education Act, including campus safety and climate; adult education; postsecondary career and technical education, apprenticeship programs, and workforce development, including but not limited to the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, vocational rehabilitation, and workforce development programs from immigration fees; programs related to the arts and humanities, museum and library services, and arts and artifacts indemnity; science and technology programs; and domestic volunteer programs and national service programs, including the Corporation for National and Community Service.\n\n", "id": "7737069", "categories": [], "title": "United States House Education Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Investment"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737082", "text": "Marchy Lee\n\nMarchy Lee Ying-Kin (Traditional Chinese: 李英健) is a racing driver from Hong Kong. Born in 1976 in Hong Kong, Marchy started his racing career at just 9 years old and has become one of the top racecar drivers in Hong Kong.\n\nHe is the first Formula 3 driver from Hong Kong and has competed in the Macau Grand Prix.\n\nMarchy currently resides in Hong Kong with his wife and their two daughters.\n\nMarchy was born on 2 September 1976 in Hong Kong. Marchy's father was also a racing driver and he has been karting at a young age. When the Zhuhai International Circuit was built in 1996, he enrolled in the inaugural China Formula Campus Championship. Upon winning the championship, he received a scholarship to join the La Filière racing school in Le Mans, France to continue his development.\n\nHe spent 3 years in France, progressing from Formula Campus to French Formula 3, achieving respectable results.\n\nBut his funding ran out and he returned to Asia afterwards, competing in some Asian and Australian F3 races. He won 2 Asian Formula 3 races at Sepang and finished 7th in the Macau Formula 3 Grand Prix.\n\nIn August 2003, driving a Dallara F301 Renault, he took pole position in the Australian Formula 3 race at Philip Island in treacherous conditions.\n\nLater that year he won two Formula BMW Asia races in Beijing and finished 2nd to Hideaki Nakao in the Formula Renault race in Macau. He also took part in the Porsche Carrera Cup Asia race and finished fifth, despite a problem with the gas pedal, behind Alex Yoong, Charles Kwan, Matthew Marsh and Nigel Albon.\n\nIn 2004, Marchy teamed up with the top Asian racing outfit, Team Meritus, to race in the Formula BMW Asia series. He won 12 races out of 14, making him the first Chinese formula racing champion in an international series. Lee received an extra prize in recognition of his extraordinary achievements – a three-day test with the Team Rosberg Formula 3 outfit.\n\nAfter winning the 2004 Formula BMW Asia title, Marchy also had the chance to test an F1 car with the Minardi team.\n\nMarchy failed to get any sponsorship deals in 2005 and 2006 to support a full season's racing. But a last minute deal allowed him to re-unite with Team Meritus in the Formula Asia V6 by Renault race at Zhuhai. He finished a strong second in the final round of the season to Matt Halliday and set the fastest race lap in the process, rekindling his hopes to race professionally again in 2007 and beyond.\n\nMarchy raced in the Asian Super Car Challenge in Zhuhai on 24–25 March, claiming one win and one second place in the Ferrari 430. He then drove in the Porsche Carrera Cup Asia in Sepang where he finished second twice.\n\nMarchy has been confirmed as Meritus Racing's driver for the 2007 Formula Asia V6 by Renault series. He hopes that by achieving success in the series, he will be able to progress to the Champ Car World Series in 2008.\n\nOn 13 July 2007, Marchy was announced as the driver for a new team set up by Adrian Fu to compete in the remainder of the Porsche Carrera Cup Asia series under the banner \"Racing for Charity\", in help increase the profile and visibility of the Child's Dream Foundation.\n\nOn 1 August 2007, it was announced by A1 Team China that he will join the rookie test at the end of August at Silverstone, alongside three other drivers. The best performer from this test will join Cheng Congfu as China's two A1GP representatives.\n\nOn 20 September 2007, he was officially announced as the second driver for A1 Team China. He made his debut for the team in round 2 at the Czech Republic on 12 October 2007, he gathered data for the team in the rookie sessions. Cheng Congfu went on to score 10th and 4th-place finishes.\n\nOn 4 November 2007, Marchy took part in the Porsche Carrera Cup Asia at Zhuhai International Circuit and won both rounds 11 and 12.\n\nOn 18 November 2007, he also took part in the Porsche Carrera Cup Asia race in Macau, and finished fourth on the road (later promoted to third place after on the road winner Danny Watts was given a 30-second penalty for passing under a yellow flag.)\n\nMarchy Lee became the first Chinese driver to race in the inaugural Speedcar Series. He drove car no. 50. He failed to finish his first two races in Malaysia, as well as his first race in Bahrain, but took 4th place in race 2. He then finished 5th and 3rd in the two races in Dubai.\n\nHe is also competing in the Porsche Carrera Cup Asia. Racing for Team BetterLife, he finished 2nd and 4th in the opening rounds at Sepang. Then he took 2nd and 5th in round 2 at Shanghai.\n\nIn 2010, Marchy raced in the Porsche Carrera Cup Asia for Red Bull Racing (team is run by Dynaten Motorsports). He scored two wins at Zhuhai in June. At the last round in Zhuhai, the Hong Kong racer, who began as the only other championship contender, fought hard every inch of the way battling first Simonsen and then Christian Menzel, but he could not do enough to stay in the running and became championship runner-up for 2010.\n\nOn 7 November 2011, Marchy partnered Matthew Marsh and Alex Yoong to drive an Audi R8 LMS for KK Performance (Again, team is run by Dynaten Motorsport) in the 2010 1000 km of Zhuhai race, part of the Intercontinental Le Mans Cup. Starting eleventh on the grid, the Audi R8 LMS No. 98 was at the heart of the race, before inheriting the lead of GTC after the retirement of the sister car of United Autosport. Lee, Yoong and Marsh took the chequered flag in 12th position overall.\n\nTwo weeks later, on 21 November 2010, Marchy drove the same Audi R8 LMS race car to second place in the Macau GT Cup, beaten only by defending champion Keita Sawa's Lamborghini LP560 GT3.\n\nOn 10 March 2011, Marchy Lee announced that he will join the 2011 World Touring Car Championship with KK Motorsports. But he left the championship after just 3 rounds.\n\nOn 11 November 2012, Marchy Lee became the first ever Audi R8 LMS Cup Champion after crossing the line second in the twelfth and final round at the Shanghai International Circuit.\n\n\n", "id": "7737082", "categories": ["Australian Formula 3 Championship drivers", "Asian Formula Renault Challenge drivers", "A1 Team China drivers", "1976 births", "Living people", "Hong Kong racing drivers", "Formula V6 Asia drivers", "A1 Grand Prix Rookie drivers", "World Touring Car Championship drivers", "Hong Kong people", "French Formula Three Championship drivers", "Formula BMW Asia drivers", "Asian Formula Three Championship drivers", "Speedcar Series drivers"], "title": "Marchy Lee"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737084", "text": "Pterodactyloidea\n\nPterodactyloidea (derived from the Greek words \"πτερόν\" (\"pterón\", for usual \"ptéryx\") \"wing\", and \"δάκτυλος\" (\"dáctylos\") \"finger\" meaning \"winged finger\", \"wing-finger\" or \"finger-wing\") is one of the two traditional suborders of pterosaurs (\"wing lizards\"), and contains the most derived members of this group of flying reptiles. They appeared during the middle Jurassic Period, and differ from the basal (though paraphyletic) rhamphorhynchoids by their short tails and long wing metacarpals (hand bones). The most advanced forms also lack teeth, and by the late Cretaceous, all known pterodactyloids were toothless. Many species had well developed crests on the skull, a form of display taken to extremes in giant-crested forms like \"Nyctosaurus\" and \"Tupandactylus\". Pterodactyloids (specifically the family Azhdarchidae) were the last surviving pterosaurs when the order became extinct at the end of the Cretaceous Period, together with the non-avian dinosaurs and most marine reptiles.\n\n\"Pterodactyl\" is also a common term for pterodactyloid pterosaurs, though it can also be used to refer to \"Pterodactylus\" specifically or (incorrectly) to pterosaurs in general. Well-known examples of pterodactyloids include \"Pterodactylus\", \"Dsungaripterus\", \"Pteranodon\", and \"Quetzalcoatlus\".\n\nIn 2014, fossils from the Shishugou Formation of China were classified as the most basal pterodactyloid yet found, \"Kryptodrakon\". At a minimum age of about 161 my, it is about 5 million years older than the oldest previously known confirmed specimens. Previously, a fossil jaw recovered from the Middle Jurassic Stonesfield Slate formation in the United Kingdom, was considered the oldest known. This specimen supposedly represented a member of the family Ctenochasmatidae, though further examination suggested it belonged to a teleosaurid stem-crocodilian instead of a pterosaur. O'Sullivan and Martill (2018) described a partial synsacrum from the Stonesfield Slate identified as possibly pterodactyloid based on the number of incorporated sacrals although they commented that the morphology was perhaps closer to that of wukongopterids. If correctly identified, it would be the oldest pterodactyloid fossil known.\n\nPterodactyloidea is traditionally considered to be the group of short-tailed pterosaurs with long wrists (metacarpus), compared with the relatively long tails and short wrist bones of basal pterosaurs (\"rhamphorhynchoids\"). In 2004, Kevin Padian formally defined Pterodactyloidea as an apomorphy-based clade containing those species possessing a metacarpal at least 80% of the length of the humerus, homologous with that of \"Pterodactylus\".\n\nA subgroup of pterodactyloids, called the Lophocratia, was named by David Unwin in 2003. Unwin defined the group as the most recent common ancestor of \"Pterodaustro guinazui\" and \"Quetzalcoatlus northropi\", and all its descendants. This group was named for the presence of a head crest in most known species, though this feature has since been found in more primitive pterosaurs and was probably an ancestral feature for all pterodactyloids.\n\nThere are competing theories of pterodactyloid phylogeny. Below is a cladogram showing the results of a phylogenetic analysis presented by Longrich, Martill, and Andres, 2018. This study found the two traditional groupings of ctenochasmatoids and kin as an early branching group, with all other pterodactyloids grouped into the Eupterodactyloidea.\nSome studies based on a different type of analysis have found that this basic division into primitive (archaeopterodactyloid) and advanced (eupterodactyloid) species may not be correct. Beginning in 2014, Steven Vidovic and David Martill constructed an analysis in which several pterosaurs traditionally thought of as archaeopterodactyloids closely related to the ctenochasmatoids may have been more closely related to ornithocheiroids, or in some cases, fall outside both groups. The results of their updated 2017 analysis are shown below.\n", "id": "7737084", "categories": ["Pterodactyloids", "Oxfordian first appearances"], "title": "Pterodactyloidea"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737087", "text": "1,4-Butynediol\n\n1,4-Butynediol is an organic compound that is an alkyne and a diol. It is a colourless, hygroscopic solid that is soluble in water and polar organic solvents. It is a commercially significant compound in its own right and as a precursor to other products.\n\n1,4-Butynediol can be produced in the Reppe synthesis, where formaldehyde and acetylene are the reactants:\n\nSeveral patented production methods use copper bismuth catalysts coated on an inert material. The normal temperature range for the reaction is 90 °C up to 150 °C, depending on the pressure used for the reaction which can range from 1 to 20 bar.\n\n1,4-Butynediol is a precursor to 1,4-butanediol and 2-butene-1,4-diol by hydrogenation. It is also used in the manufacture of certain herbicides, textile additives, corrosion inhibitors, plasticizers, synthetic resins, and polyurethanes. It is the major raw material used in the synthesis of vitamin B. It is also used for brightening, preserving, and inhibiting nickel plating.\n\nIt reacts with a mixture of chlorine and hydrochloric acid to give mucochloric acid, HOCC(Cl)=C(Cl)CHO (see mucobromic acid).\n\n1,4-Butynediol is corrosive and irritates the skin, eyes, and respiratory tract.\n\n", "id": "7737087", "categories": ["Alkyne derivatives"], "title": "1,4-Butynediol"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737114", "text": "Pierre Marie\n\nPierre Marie (9 September 1853 – 13 April 1940) was a French neurologist who was a native of Paris.\n\nAfter finishing medical school, he served as an interne (1878), working as an assistant to neurologist Jean-Martin Charcot (1825–1893) at the Salpêtrière and Bicêtre Hospitals in Paris. In 1883 he received his medical doctorate with a graduate thesis on Basedow’s disease, being promoted to \"médecin des hôpitaux\" several years later (1888). In 1907 he attained the chair of pathological anatomy at the Faculty of Medicine, and in 1917 was appointed to the chair of neurology, a position he held until 1925. In 1911 Marie became a member of the \"Académie de Médecine\".\n\nOne of Marie's earlier contributions was a description of a disorder of the pituitary gland known as acromegaly. His analysis of the disease was an important contribution in the emerging field of endocrinology. Marie is also credited as the first to describe pulmonary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy, cleidocranial dysostosis and rhizomelic spondylosis. In his extensive research of aphasia, his views concerning language disorders sharply contrasted the generally accepted views of Paul Broca (1824–1880). In 1907, he was the first person to describe the speech production disorder of foreign accent syndrome. \n\nMarie was the first general secretary of the \"Société Française de Neurologie\", and with Édouard Brissaud (1852–1909), he was co-founder of the journal \"Revue neurologique\". His name is associated with the eponymous Charcot–Marie–Tooth disease, being named along with Jean-Martin Charcot and Howard Henry Tooth (1856–1925). This disease is characterized by gradual progressive loss of distal muscle tissue in the arms and feet. It is considered the most common disease within a group of conditions known as \"hereditary motor and sensory neuropathies\" (HMSN).\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7737114", "categories": ["1853 births", "French neurologists", "People from Paris", "1940 deaths", "French endocrinologists"], "title": "Pierre Marie"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737115", "text": "Fernando Castro Pacheco\n\nFernando Castro Pacheco (January 26, 1918 – August 8, 2013) was a Mexican painter, engraver, illustrator, printmaker and teacher. As well as being known for traditional artistic forms, Castro Pacheco illustrated several children’s books and produced works in sculpture. He is more popularly known for his murals that invoke the spirit and history of the Mexican people. His works evoke a unique use of color and form.\n\nBorn in Mérida, Yucatán in Mexico, Castro Pacheco went on to become a well known international and local artist. Little has been published about the artist’s early life. While some scholars insist that he was a mostly self-taught artist, Castro Pacheco began his “formal\" training at the Mérida School of Fine Arts at the age of 15.” While at the school, he honed his artistic skills in engraving and painting. During the time he spent at his school, he studied under the instruction of Italian artist Alfonso Cardone. It was at this school that he completed his first engravings in both wood and linoleum. Castro Pacheco spent six years at the school and produced many works during this early period in his artistic career. He also worked as an instructor and taught painting and drawing in the Mérida area.\n\nUpon completion of his studies, Castro Pacheco is credited with co-founding La Escuela Libre de Las Artes Plásticas de Yucatán in 1941. He also served as an instructor for the school. This school, like many others founded during this period, moved the art classroom and studio into an outdoor atmosphere, allowing the artist to more freely capture the beauty, color and realism of nature in art. The idea of outdoor schools of art was promoted by Alfredo Ramos Martinéz. The idea centered on the promotion of more liberal methods for art instruction. In 1942, soon after the founding of the school, Castro Pacheco produced his first lithographs and displayed his painting and drawings in his first exhibit at the Galería de la Universidad de Yucatán.\n\nWhile in Mérida, Castro Pacheco began work on several murals around the city. Between 1941 and 1942, he completed murals in the preschools (jardines de niños) or playgrounds in Mérida, as well as in several rural school buildings including the Escuela Campesina de Tocoh located in the rural henequen-producing area near Mérida. He also completed \"al fresco\" murals with cultural and sport themes at the Biblioteca de la Union de Camioneros de Yucatán in Mérida.\n\nIn 1943 Castro Pacheco moved to Mexico City where his career and personal life took new directions. Castro Pacheco married during this time and fathered two children. Relating to his career in art, it was during his time in Mexico that he was first linked to the Taller de Gráfica Popular. The Taller was a group of artists and printmakers that formed in 1937 most likely from the dissolved Liga de Escritores y Artistas Revolucionarios (League of revolutionary writers and artists) or LEAR which had been active in Mexico City prior to suffering from internal problems. The Taller is associated with popular political movements in Mexico during this time that included “progressive democratic” ideas and support for union workers and people of the lower classes. Castro Pacheco’s role at the Taller is debated. According to some sources he was a somewhat important artist at the Taller, producing engravings and prints that exemplified the face of the poor and suffering in Mexico. According to other sources Castro Pacheco’s role at the Taller was brief and limited, only participating in one show with the group upon his arrival in Mexico City. It was through this first exhibit with the Taller however, that Castro Pacheco gained attention as a print maker and artist. A portfolio of his work was included at the exhibition which gained him attention in the Mexico City art scene and in the international scene as well.\n\nCastro Pacheco continued as a print maker until 1960. Working first with linoleum and then between 1945 and 1960 with predominantly wood cuts. His work was used to illustrate books, magazines and other publications. Notable examples include La flauta de caña by Fernando Espejo and Los pozos sagrados by Miguel Alvarez Acosta. He also illustrated the essay La llanura aislada by Elmer Llanes Marín.\n\nBefore returning to Mérida in 1973, he also served at the director of the Escuela Nacional de Pintura y Escultura \"La Esmeralda.\"\n\nAfter his arrival and success in Mexico City, Castro Pacheco exhibited his works on an international level. In 1945 a selection of his paintings were exhibited the United States at a gallery in San Francisco, California. In 1947 his paintings were part of a collective exhibition in Havana, Cuba.\n\nUpon his return to Mexico City, in 1949 he was named a professor of the Escuela National de Artes Plásticas. Castro Pacheco continued to produce works in various medium while in Mexico City. Moving away from tradition canvas, he is credited with producing the scenery for the ballet productions \"Guernica\" and \"La nube estéril\" at the Palacio de Bellas Artes in Mexico City in 1953. Remaining a prominent and active artist, in 1963 Castro Pacheco earned a commission from the Institución Nacional de Bellas Artes to travel to countries including Spain, Italy, France, England, the Netherlands and Belgium in order to study the artistic styles of these countries.\n\nAfter his travels abroad, Castro Pacheco returned to his native Mérida in 1971 and continued to produce works. Well established as an artist, Castro Pacheco’s most well known works may be the murals that he completed between 1971 and 1979 for the states of Yucatán and Querétaro in Mexico. Between 1971 and 1979 Castro Pacheco completed 27 murals for the governor’s palace in Mérida, Yucatán. These murals depict what some consider the realities of life in the Yucatán after the Spanish conquest as well as images and myths of native Maya tribes indigenous of the Yucatán region. The murals depict scenes of work and torture that the native peoples of the Yucatán endured under Spanish control. The reality of early henequen workers are seen in \"El henequen\". A traditional creation myth of the native tribes is also depicted by Castro Pacheco in his work \"Hombres de maiz\". The murals are oil paintings on large format canvas.\n\nThe murals are on public display at the governor’s palace. Unlike traditional murals that are pained directly onto the wall, Castro Pacheco’s murals are unique, “transportable murals.” Because the murals were not “produced and conceived on the walls, in relation to the architecture” his murals cannot be considered part of the traditional “Mexican Renaissance” of which muralist such as Diego Rivera and Jesus Guerrero Galvan are a part. Because they are painted on large canvas and from a unique perspective, the murals appear as large format paintings, Castro Pacheco does not rely upon “exaggerated foreshortening and perspectives” in these works the images are merely of large proportion.\n\nTo date Castro Pacheco remains a Mexican artist of note, especially in Mérida where some of his most famous works are maintained. In Mérida his works are well respected and on display in public areas. Through his lifetime Castro Pacheco earned several awards for his artistic accomplishments. In 1945 he earned his first award for his accomplishments in engraving in Mexico City. In 1954 his painting Salon de invierno earned a first place award from the Salón de la Plástica Mexicana in Mexico City. He went on to earn several other first place awards for his painting and engaging works from the Salon de Plástica Mexicana. In 1964 he was awarded the Medalla Yucatán and in 1972 the Medalla Eligio Acorna from the Universidad Autónoma de Yucatán and the Government of the State of the Yucatán. In 1993 the Universidad Autónoma de Yucatán created a video to showcase the life work and talents of Castro Pacheco and in 1994 Castro Pacheco earned another honor when the Museo de Arte Contemporáneo (MACAY)in Mérida named a gallery in his honor.\n\nCollections of his work remain on display at the Galería de Arte Mexicano in Mexico City and at the Museo MACAY in Mérida.\n\nTo his credit, Castro Pacheco has undertaken to produce works in various media. His earliest works are known for their graphic style. Sketches, pencil drawings and inked works on paper account for a majority of his early works. These works have in common Castro Pacheco’s attention to darkness. Studies in shade and chiaroscuro are captured in this period of his career. Using different shades of black and different degrees of darkness, his dark expressionist pieces are seen in his work \"Despertar\", 1941.\n\nEarly distempers, oils and watercolors on the other hand created by Castro Pacheco use soft colors and pencil outlines to capture the beauty and fluidity of rural life in Mérida. In his works from the period of the Escuela Libre the artist, captures landscapes in a subtle way. Drawing on the influences of the outdoor school, images of livestock are displayed using warm brown tones in his 1941 work \"El corral de la hacienda\". Of his earliest works, Castro Pacheco’s attention to water-color techniques is also unique. A large amount of his concentration on landscapes, perspective and human form are seen in his water-color snap shots of people performing everyday activities. Examples include \"Pescadores\", 1941.\n\nAs an artist, Castro Pacheco has given his two dimensional works form and substance through his works in sculpture. Mostly cast in bronze, it is estimated that the artist produced at least eight original works in this medium. He also produced about 35 enamels and 60 works in ceramic.\n\nOne of the main subjects expressed in much of Castro Pacheco’s body of work is the female figure. Both nudes and robed models are frequently at the center of this works. Women that are the focal point of his work are of Mexican heritage. While the image of a woman alone is depicted more frequently by Castro Pacheco he also depicts women with male companions or with children.\n\nGrandes Artistas De Nuestro Siglo\". 1a ed. en español ed. México, D.F: Panorama Editorial, 1981.\n\"Fernando Castro Pacheco : Color e Imagen De Yucatá̱n\". 1st ed. Mérida, Yucatán, México: \nUniversidad Autónoma de Yucatán, Dirección General de Extensión, 1994, . \nhttp://yucatantoday.com/en/topics/castro-pacheco-murals\nhttp://www.graphicwitness.org/group/tgp.htm.\n\n", "id": "7737115", "categories": ["Mexican muralists", "1918 births", "Artists from Yucatán (state)", "2013 deaths", "20th-century Mexican painters", "Mexican printmakers", "21st-century Mexican painters", "People from Mérida, Yucatán"], "title": "Fernando Castro Pacheco"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737131", "text": "United States House Education Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary and Secondary Education\n\nThe House Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary and Secondary Education is a standing subcommittee within the United States House Committee on Education and the Workforce. It was formerly known as the Subcommittee on Education Reform.\n\nFrom the Official Subcommittee website:\n\nEducation from early learning through the high school level, including but not limited to early care and education programs such as the Head Start Act and the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act, special education, and homeless and migrant education; overseas dependent schools; career and technical education; school climate and safety, including alcohol and drug abuse prevention; educational equity, including facilities; educational research and improvement, including the Institute of Education Sciences; and pre-service and in-service teacher professional development, including Title II of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act and Title II of the Higher Education Act\n\n", "id": "7737131", "categories": [], "title": "United States House Education Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary and Secondary Education"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737160", "text": "Nathalia Crane\n\nNathalia Clara Ruth Crane (11 August 1913 – 22 October 1998) was a poet and novelist who became famous as a child prodigy after the publication of her first book of poetry, \"The Janitor's Boy\", written at age 10 and published two years later. Her poetry was first published in \"The New York Sun\" when she was only 9 years old, the paper unaware that she was a child. She was elected into the British Society of Authors, Playwrights, and Composers in 1925, written up in The American Mercury and later became a professor of English at San Diego State University.\n\nAfter the publication of her second volume of poetry, \"Lava Lane,\" poet Edwin Markham implied that the publications were probably a hoax, stating \"It seems impossible to me that a girl so immature could have written these poems. They are beyond the powers of a girl of twelve. The sophisticated viewpoint of sex, ...knowledge of history and archeology found in these pages place them beyond the reach of any juvenile mind.\" \n\nCrane was dubbed \"The Brooklyn Bard\" by the time she was 13 and became part of the Louis Untermeyer poetry circle during her late teens, with Untermeyer contributing an introduction to her 1936 volume \"Swear by the Night & Other Poems\". He was an early promoter of her work, stating, \"some of the critics explained the work by insisting that the child was some sort of medium, an instrument unaware of what was played upon it; others, considering the book a hoax, scorned the fact that any child could have written verses so smooth in execution and so remarkable in spiritual overtones\" and that \"the appeal of such lines is not that they have been written by a child but by a poet.\"\n\nShe is supposedly related to Stephen Crane, author of \"The Red Badge of Courage\", and the \"well-known publicist,\" Dr. Frank Crane.\n\nPoetry\n\nNovels\n\nOther\n", "id": "7737160", "categories": ["1913 births", "1998 deaths", "20th-century American novelists", "American women novelists", "San Diego State University faculty", "American child writers", "American women poets", "20th-century American women writers"], "title": "Nathalia Crane"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737161", "text": "Cuscuta pentagona\n\nCuscuta pentagona, the fiveangled dodder, is a parasitic plant in the morning glory family Convolvulaceae. It is native to North America, where it is widespread in the United States and Canada. Unlike the closely related \"C. campestris\", it has not become established on other continents. \n\n\"Cuscuta pentagona\" is a slender annual vine. It is parasitic on a wide range of herbaceous plants, but with particular emphasis on members of the aster family (Asteraceae).\n\nIts typical natural habitat is in moist, open areas such as riverbanks, wet prairies, and pond edges. It is tolerant of disturbance, as can be found as a weed in fields and along roadsides.\n", "id": "7737161", "categories": ["Parasitic plants", "Cuscuta", "Flora of North America", "Plants described in 1842"], "title": "Cuscuta pentagona"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737166", "text": "Bob Mason (actor)\n\nRobert William Mason (29 July 1951 – 21 September 2004) was a British actor and writer, born in Rochdale, Lancashire. Throughout 1976 he played Terry Bradshaw in \"Coronation Street\" and later as Sergeant Eddie Slater in \"The Lakes\" in 1997. He also had a regular role in \"Casualty\" during the early 2000s.\n\nMason also appeared in \"The Bill\", \"Felicia's Journey\", \"Doctors\", \"Where the Heart Is\", \"Black Box\", \"The Missing Postman\", \"Between the Lines\", \"Juliet Bravo\", \"Peak Practice\", \"Clocking Off\", \"Teachers\", \"Cutting It\", and \"Dalziel and Pascoe\".\n\nDuring the 1980s he concentrated on writing, scripting the plays \"Love in Vain\" and \"Working Class Hero\" in 1982 and 1983 respectively. Between 1981 and 1989 he penned scripts for Coronation Street - quite notably making him the only (regular) member of the cast to write for the programme. He died on 21 September 2004 of cancer in Cambridge aged 53. He was survived by wife Janet and two daughters.\n\n", "id": "7737166", "categories": ["Deaths from esophageal cancer", "English male television actors", "Deaths from cancer in England", "1952 births", "2004 deaths", "English male soap opera actors"], "title": "Bob Mason (actor)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737177", "text": "Texas State Highway Loop 150\n\nLoop 150 is a loop route in the city of Bastrop in the U.S. state of Texas. Loop 150 follows the route of old alignment of SH 71 through Bastrop. The route of SH 71 changed when the state built a bypass around Bastrop. Loop 150 leaves SH 71 on the west side of town and rejoins SH 71 on the east side, crossing the Colorado River. The historic Colorado River Bridge at Bastrop is part of Loop 150.\n\nThe routing of the roadway had been proposed as early as 1919 as SH 3A. In 1924, the historic Colorado River Bridge at Bastrop was completed to provide access to both sides of the Colorado River. By 1926, the designation had been changed to SH 71. \n\nIn 2013, the Texas Legislature, designated the new bridge on Loop 150 across the Colorado River as the Chief Petty Officer (SOC) Stephen \"Matt\" Mills Bridge. Mills was a highly decorated United States Navy SEAL, who died while conducting special operations in Afghanistan on August 6, 2011.\n\nLoop 150 begins on the west side of Bastrop at a diamond interchange with SH 21 and SH 71. The loop heads northeast from the interchange to a crossing of the Colorado River. After the river crossing, the road heads east along Chestnut Street through Bastrop. Loop 150 continues to the east through the city to an intersection with SH 21 and 95. SH 21 enters the intersection from the south concurrent with SH 95 and begins to run concurrently with Loop 150 as the two head to the east. As the loop begins to curve back towards the southeast, SH 21 leaves the concurrency to the northeast. Access to nearby Bastrop State Park is provided by an intersection with Park Road 1 just east of the SH 21 intersection. Loop 150 continues to the southeast to its endpoint at a concurrent SH 71 and SH 95.\n", "id": "7737177", "categories": ["State highway loops in Texas"], "title": "Texas State Highway Loop 150"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737240", "text": "Nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate\n\nNicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate, (NAADP), is a Ca-mobilizing second messenger synthesised in response to extracellular stimuli. Like its mechanistic cousins, IP and cyclic adenosine diphosphoribose (Cyclic ADP-ribose), NAADP binds to and opens Ca channels on intracellular organelles, thereby increasing the intracellular Ca concentration which, in turn, modulates sundry cellular processes (see Calcium signalling). Structurally, it is a dinucleotide that only differs from the house-keeping enzyme cofactor, NADP by a hydroxyl group (replacing the nicotinamide amino group) and yet this minor modification converts it into the most potent Ca-mobilizing second messenger yet described. NAADP acts across phyla from plants to man.\n\nIn their landmark 1987 paper, Hon Cheung Lee and colleagues discovered not one but two Ca-mobilizing second messengers, cADPR and NAADP from the effects of nucleotides on Ca release in sea urchin egg homogenates. It turns out that NAADP was a contaminant in commercial sources of NADP, but it was not until 1995 that its structure was solved. The first demonstration that NAADP could act in mammalian cells (pancreas) came four years later. Subsequently, NAADP has been detected in sources as diverse as human sperm, red and white blood cells, liver, and pancreas, to name but a few.\n\nThe first demonstration that NAADP levels increase in response to an extracellular stimulus arose from studying sea urchin fertilization (NAADP changed in both the eggs and sperm upon contact). Subsequently, other cell types have followed suit, as exemplified by the pancreas (acinar and beta cells), T-cells, and smooth muscle. Levels increase very rapidly — and possibly precede the increase in the other messengers IP and cADPR— but can be very transient (spiking and returning to basal levels within seconds). The transduction mechanisms that couple cell stimuli to such NAADP increases are ill-defined, with some suggestions of cyclic AMP or cytosolic Ca itself stimulating synthesis.\n\nRegardless of the details, an outstanding issue is that the physiological route of NAADP synthesis has still not been \"unequivocally\" identified — neither the reaction(s) nor the enzyme(s). Clearly, it is theoretically possible there may be multiple routes of synthesis, but this would be unprecedented in the second messenger world. To date, the most favoured hypothesis is the so-called \"base-exchange reaction\" (nicotinic acid + NADP → NAADP + nicotinamide; catalyzed by ADP-ribosyl cyclases) which are a family of enzymes that include CD38 and CD157 in mammals (and orthologs in sea urchin and \"Aplysia\" ovotestis). These were first discovered as the synthetic enzymes for cADPR but later revealed to be multifunctional, promiscuous enzymes that can also produce NAADP. Certainly NAADP production can occur \"in vitro\" but whether it occurs \"in vivo\" is another question (because genetic knockout or knock-down of ADP-ribosyl cyclases has no effect on NAADP production in some cell types), and there may be other routes which require different substrates and enzymes.\n\nThe first chemical synthesis of NAADP was achieved in 2004 using a chemoenzymatic approach: a total chemical synthesis of NADP and then conversion of this to NAADP enzymatically.\n\nLike any second messenger system, the signal must be terminated and there must be routes for NAADP removal but again, little is known with any degree of certainty. A 2'-3'-phosphatase stimulated by Ca has been proposed in brain and, possibly in pancreatic acinar cells, that catabolises NAADP to inactive NAAD. More recently, CD38 has also been proposed to breakdown NAADP (to ADPRP — see inset). NAADP may also be reduced to NAADPH.\n\nHardly surprisingly, the three major second messengers do not do the same thing and cannot always substitute for each other. The physiological consequences of Ca release by each messenger may be different i.e. NAADP couples to downstream responses that cannot be mimicked by IP3 and cADPR. For example, NAADP selectively stimulates neuronal differentiation, or exocytosis in immune cells.\n\nIn contrast to IP3 and cyclic ADP-ribose which predominantly mobilize Ca from the neutral and abundant endoplasmic reticulum (ER) store, NAADP selectively targets acidic Ca stores — usually less abundant than the ER but with a pivotal role that belies their size. This paradigm shift away from the ER derives from seminal studies, again in sea urchin egg, that showed NAADP-mediated Ca release was sensitive to agents that target acidic organelles (e.g. bafilomycin A1) but was less sensitive to ones that interfere with ER Ca storage (e.g. thapsigargin).\n\nThis is a blanket term that encompasses a spectrum of acidic vesicles that include endosomes, lysosomes, and lysosome-related organelles and secretory vesicles and acidocalcisomes. They are a highly dynamic continuum of vesicles with a rich variety of established biochemical roles in cells, to which Ca storage can now be added. Their luminal pH is one characteristic that distinguishes a given vesicle class from another: where endosomes are weakly acidic (pH 6-6.5), lysosomes are typically the most acidic (pH 4.5-5.0) and secretory vesicles are typically pH 5.5. Ca is seen to be increasingly important for endo-lysosomal function, e.g. trafficking and autophagy. Aberrations in Ca signals can have pathophysiological consequences, including lysosomal storage diseases such as Niemann Pick C and Mucolipidosis IV.\n\nWhen NAADP mobilizes Ca from these stores, the pH of the stores concomitantly increases (becomes more alkaline), as testified by studies in sea urchin egg, mammalian heart and pancreas. Whether this has consequences for vesicle (or NAADP) function remains to be seen, but luminal pH is usually crucial for resident protein activity.\n\nIn other Ca-storing organelles such as the endoplasmic reticulum or Golgi, stores are filled by calcium ATPase pumps, typified by the ubiquitous members of the SERCA or the SPCA (secretory pathway Ca-ATPase) families respectively. Ca uptake by acidic stores occurs via other proteins: in yeast and plants (the best understood systems) the acidic vacuoles host two uptake pathways: a high affinity Ca-ATPase and a low affinity Ca/H antiporter (or exchanger, generically denoted as CHX). The pumps are different from the SERCA family (and, importantly, are insensitive to their inhibitor, thapsigargin) whereas the exchanger exploit the H gradient to drive Ca uptake against its concentration gradient. The genes encoding these proteins are well-defined.\n\nIn higher organisms, the situation is less clear. Ca uptake usually occurs via a thapsigargin-insensitive pathway (therefore precluding SERCA involvement) and appears to be dependent upon the H gradient; whether this occurs via a single (unknown) CHX or via exchangers in series (e.g. Na/H exchanger coupled to a Na/Ca exchanger) is unproven. Acidic vesicles in some cell types may well take a leaf out of the yeasts'/plants' book and host two uptake pathways, but whether this is a widespread template is unclear.\n\nIn the absence of selective Ca uptake inhibitors (often because we do not even know the protein/route), it is common to \"indirectly\" inhibit Ca uptake by collapsing the thermodynamic drive (the H gradient). The H gradient can be eliminated either with H ionophores (protonophores) such as nigericin or monensin or by inhibiting the V-ATPase that generates the H gradient with compounds such as bafilomycin A1 or concanamycin.\n\nEven from the early pioneering work in sea urchin egg, it was clear from the pharmacological profile that NAADP acted upon a different channel from the IP3 receptor and ryanodine receptor and this has recently been borne out by the molecular identification of the NAADP receptor as members of the TPC (two-pore channel) family. As structural intermediates between single domain TRP and four-domain Voltage-dependent calcium channel, the TPCs form oligomers (possibly dimers) to form the functional Ca channel. Appropriately, these channels reside on acidic organelles (including different classes of endosomes and lysosomes) likely due to the presence of endolysomal targeting sequences.\n\nThe effect of genetic manipulation of TPC levels (i.e. over-expression, knock-down or knock-out) is consistent with TPCs being the NAADP-gated channel. Moreover, TPCs recapitulate many of the characteristics of NAADP-induced Ca release i.e. they promote Ca release from acidic stores, correlate with NAADP-binding sites, exhibit a bell-shaped NAADP concentration-response curve, sensitivity to the NAADP antagonist, Ned-19, and provide trigger Ca that is subsequently amplified by ER Ca channels.\n\nThere are 3 genes that encode three isoforms of TPC1-3 that differ substantially from each other in their primary sequence (but these differences are preserved across species, such that human and sea urchin TPC1 are more closely related than are human TPC1 and human TPC2). Moreover, the TPC isoforms exhibit different organellar distributions, with TPC1 being found throughout the endo-lysosomal system whereas TPC2 shows a more restricted late-endosomal/lysosomal localization.\n\nIn spite of a burgeoning literature supporting TPCs as the NAADP-regulated channel, this was challenged in 2012/13 by reports that TPCs are, instead, Na channels regulated by the endo-lysosomal lipid, Phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate, PI(3,5)P and also by metabolic state (via ATP and mTOR).\n\nAs a result of this, several groups reinvestigated the permeability properties of TPCs and their role in NAADP-induced Ca release. They agreed that TPCs are indeed permeable to Na but they could not necessarily recapitulate the Na selectivity shown in the 2012/13 studies. These groups therefore concluded that TPCs were cation channels that conducted both Ca and Na (analogous to the NMDA receptor of the plasma membrane).\n\nAs for activation by ligands, all groups agree that TPCs are modulated by PI(3,5)P, though its role is considered by some to be more of a 'permissive' factor rather than an acute signal per se. As for NAADP itself, the conclusion in 2012 that TPCs are not involved in NAADP signalling was partly due to the fact that their transgenic mice (designed to knockout both TPC1 and TPC2; double-knockout, DKO) apparently retained sensitivity to NAADP. However, others have questioned whether these mice are true DKO when they are predicted to retain >90% of the TPC protein sequences (i.e. they express only mildly truncated TPCs which are functional ). In a different DKO mouse that is demonstrably TPC-null, NAADP responses are completely abolished.\n\nOn balance, the controversy has been somewhat resolved and it is clear that TPCs are absolutely essential for NAADP. The permeability properties are more equivocal: why some groups observe a Na selectivity while others see a mixed Na/Ca permeability is currently unclear. The necessarily artificial experimental conditions for such as a demanding technique as single-lysosome patch clamp makes it harder to be dogmatic about which ions permeate under native, physiological conditions. It is likely (and the simpler model) that TPCs function as NAADP-gated Ca-permeable channels, but it cannot be formally excluded that TPCs, acting as Na channels, play a permissive role in a more complex ionic circuit that supports NAADP-induced Ca release .\n\nCrystal structures of TPC1 from Arabidopsis thaliana reveal the dimeric nature of the molecule, but thus far do not explain the cation selectivity mechanism.\n\nIP3 binds directly to its cognate IP3 receptor which is therefore a true ligand-gated ion channel. In contrast, NAADP may not bind directly to TPCs but may require an intermediate unknown accessory protein. In sea urchin egg homogenate, the binding protein(s) may be smaller than TPCs themselves, judging by photoaffinity labelling with [P]azido-NAADP. Therefore, the NAADP receptor is likely to be a multi-protein complex on acidic vesicles.\n\nIn addition to NAADP gating the channel, there is evidence that the luminal pH also affects TPC channel activity, either TPC1 or TPC2 . However, a clear consensus on the effect of pH has not been reached with some suggesting that acidic pH favours TPC1 or TPC2 opening, whereas others report that a more alkaline pH favours TPC2 opening.\n\nFurthermore, luminal Ca also promotes TPC1 and TPC2 opening (in the latter case, luminal Ca also sensitizes TPCs to NAADP (analogous to luminal Ca regulation of IP3Rs and RyRs), but this demands wider study across isoforms and species. This is one way by which cross-talk can occur between acidic Ca stores and the ER i.e. Ca release from the ER can 'prime' acidic Ca stores and promote further NAADP-dependent Ca responses .\n\nTo date, the majority of evidence is \"against\" the NAADP receptor being regulated by either cytosolic Ca or pH.\n\nRecently, a selective cell-permeant NAADP antagonist, trans-Ned-19 has been discovered which blocks Ca signals and downstream Ca-dependent processes such as differentiation. Prior to that, only high concentrations of blockers of L-type Ca channels (e.g. diltiazem, dihydropyridines) could be used (with obvious concerns over non-NAADP effects).\n\nAlthough not true antagonism, the NAADP 'receptor' can self-inactivate when bound to non-releasing concentrations of NAADP itself. Such inactivating pre-pulses of NAADP were the first strategy for implicating NAADP in subsequent physiological pathways.\n\nNAADP is charged and cannot cross cell membranes. Therefore, an inactive, lipophilic ester precursor (NAADP/AM) has been synthesised which crosses membranes and rapidly regenerates NAADP in the cytosol following the action of endogenous esterases.\n\nCaged NAADP is an inactive, membrane-impermeant analog of NAADP that can be introduced into cells by microinjection or a patch pipette. Flash photolysis with a UV light source rapidly converts this into NAADP, allowing the experimenter to precisely manipulate NAADP levels in time and space.\n\nAn indirect means of inhibiting NAADP action is to deplete its target Ca stores. As noted above, this usually entails collapsing the H gradient with either V-ATPase inhibitors (e.g. Bafilomycin A1) or protonophores (e.g. nigericin or monensin). In platelets it has been suggested that SERCA3 inhibition with tBHQ can also abrogate NAADP-dependent signals.\n\nThe two paralogous enzymes- transmembrane CD38 and GPI anchored CD157, that produce NAADP (and cADPR) in humans both have their active synthesis site in the ectodomain. Though this may involve vesicular synthesis but it has been shown that it is produced at the extracellular sites, and also can act when produced by a different cell or added artificially from outside. So the NAADP has to enter the cell either by diffusion or by transport. Considering the fact that the substrate of NAADP synthesis (NADP) itself is very sparse in the extracellular medium, a purse diffusion based mechanism has been suspected to be less likely than a transporter mediated path. This is compatible with recent data which indicate a carrier mediated transport partially blockable by dipyridamole and cold temperature.\n\n", "id": "7737240", "categories": ["Nucleotides"], "title": "Nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737246", "text": "Pleasant Plains, New Jersey\n\nPleasant Plains is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) located in Franklin Township, in Somerset County, New Jersey, United States. As of the 2010 United States Census, the CDP's population was 922. Having no distinct boundaries, a large area in the center of Franklin Township centered on the intersections of South Middlebush Road (County Route 615) with Claremont and Suydam Roads (the former also CR 648) is generally considered Pleasant Plains.\n\nPrior to the development of K. Hovnanian's Town and Country Estates in 1998, the area included little more than a collection of 18th and 19th century farms and rural lanes. Its historic rural character may be seen in an estimate from 1882 which listed the Pleasant Plains population at 46.\n\nAn icon in the area has been the early 19th century general store and blacksmith shop buildings known since the late 1800s as Laird's Brothers Hardware and Laird's Corner Store.\n\nAnother area feature is the Pleasant Plains Cemetery on South Middlebush Road just south of Laird's Corner that has been in use from early settlement of the area until the present day.\n\nSince the early 19th century (and possibly even earlier), the area featured a one-room schoolhouse known as the Pleasant Plains School. Located on the north side of Suydam Road about a half mile west of Laird's Corner, it remained in use until about 1931 when the Township started decommissioning its one-room schoolhouses in favor of larger regional schools. Moved across the road on log rollers, it was converted into a residence and used until the late 20th century when it was threatened with demolition to make way for the Town and County development. Instead, it was moved to the Township's Municipal Complex on DeMott Lane where it awaits further rehabilitation.\n\nThe Six Mile Run Historic District listed on the New Jersey and National Register of Historic Places includes a number of properties in the Pleasant Plains area.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, Pleasant Plains had a total area of 3.221 square miles (8.342 km), including 3.215 square miles (8.328 km) of land and 0.006 square miles (0.014 km) of water (0.17%).\n\nThe Pleasant Plains Cemetery, located on South Middlebush Road just south of Laird's Corner, was established in 1898.\n\n", "id": "7737246", "categories": ["Census-designated places in Somerset County, New Jersey"], "title": "Pleasant Plains, New Jersey"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737275", "text": "Shire of Wickepin\n\nThe Shire of Wickepin is a local government area in the Wheatbelt region of Western Australia, east of Narrogin and about southeast of the state capital, Perth. The Shire covers an area of , and its seat of government is the town of Wickepin.\n\nIn 1909, the Wickepin Road District was created. The Road Board consisted of a chairman, secretary and seven members. On 1 July 1961, it became a shire under the \"Local Government Act 1960\".\n\nThe Shire is at present undivided with its nine councillors representing the entire shire.\n\nUntil 20 October 2007 the shire was divided into 5 wards:\n\n\n", "id": "7737275", "categories": [], "title": "Shire of Wickepin"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737301", "text": "Peristimulus time histogram\n\nIn neurophysiology, peristimulus time histogram and poststimulus time histogram, both abbreviated PSTH or PST histogram, are histograms of the times at which neurons fire. It is also sometimes called pre event time histogram or PETH. These histograms are used to visualize the rate and timing of neuronal spike discharges in relation to an external stimulus or event. The peristimulus time histogram is sometimes called perievent time histogram, and \"post-stimulus\" and \"peri-stimulus\" are often hyphenated.\n\nThe prefix \"peri,\" for \"through,\" is typically used in the case of periodic stimuli, in which case the PSTH show neuron firing times wrapped to one cycle of the stimulus. The prefix \"post\" is used when the PSTH shows the timing of neuron firings in response to a stimulus event or onset.\n\nTo make a PSTH, a spike train recorded from a single neuron is aligned with the onset, or a fixed phase point, of an identical stimulus repeatedly presented to an animal. The aligned sequences are superimposed in time, and then used to construct a histogram.\n\n\nThe optimal bin size (assuming an underlying Poisson point process) Δ is a minimizer of the formula, (2k-v)/Δ, \nwhere k and v are mean and variance of k.\n", "id": "7737301", "categories": [], "title": "Peristimulus time histogram"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737367", "text": "Shire of Boddington\n\nThe Shire of Boddington is a local government area in the Peel region of Western Australia, about south-east of the state capital, Perth. The Shire covers an area of , and its seat of government is the town of Boddington.\n\nA road board had been convened at Marradong 8 km to the south in 1903, but it was relocated to Boddington in 1925 after the arrival of the railway and construction of suitable buildings. On 1 July 1961, the Marradong Road District became the Shire of Boddington following the enactment of the \"Local Government Act 1960\".\n\nThe Shire has been divided into 2 wards.\n\n\n", "id": "7737367", "categories": [], "title": "Shire of Boddington"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737397", "text": "Laudelino Barros\n\nLaudelino José \"Lino\" de Barros (born June 29, 1975 in Bonito, Mato Grosso do Sul) is a Brazilian boxer, who represented his native country in the light heavyweight division at the 2000 Summer Olympics. There he was eliminated in the first round by Australia's Danny Green. A year earlier, at the 1999 Pan American Games, Barros won the silver medal in his weight division.\n\nIn 2001 he turned pro.\n\n", "id": "7737397", "categories": ["People from Mato Grosso do Sul", "Boxers at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "Boxers at the 1999 Pan American Games", "Light-heavyweight boxers", "Pan American Games silver medalists for Brazil", "Pan American Games medalists in boxing", "Brazilian male boxers", "Living people", "1975 births", "Olympic boxers of Brazil"], "title": "Laudelino Barros"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737400", "text": "Texas State Highway 176\n\nState Highway 176 (SH 176) is a Texas state highway running from the New Mexico state line east to Big Spring. It is most commonly known as the Andrews Highway.\n\nSH 176 was originally designated on September 22, 1932 as a connector route between Tyler and the Gregg/Rusk County Line. On May 23, 1933, SH 176 extended to Kilgore. On September 26, 1939, this route had been reassigned to SH 31 when its path was shifted south.\n\nThe current routing was first cosigned, but not designated, on September 29, 1953 concurrent with RM 87. On August 29, 1990 this route was officially designated, canceling RM 87.\n", "id": "7737400", "categories": ["State highways in Texas", "Transportation in Andrews County, Texas", "Transportation in Martin County, Texas", "Transportation in Howard County, Texas"], "title": "Texas State Highway 176"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737404", "text": "Oklahoma's 1st congressional district\n\nOklahoma's First Congressional District is in the northeastern corner of the state and borders Kansas. Anchored by Tulsa, it is largely coextensive with the Tulsa metropolitan area. It includes all of Tulsa, Washington and Wagoner counties, and parts of Rogers and Creek counties. Although it has long been reckoned as the Tulsa district, a small portion of Tulsa itself is located in the 3rd District.\n\nPrincipal cities in the district (other than Tulsa) include Bartlesville, Broken Arrow, Bixby, Jenks, Sand Springs, and Wagoner.\n\nThe district is currently represented by Republican Kevin Hern who defeated Democratic nominee Tim Gilpin to fill the opening in the district created when Jim Bridenstine took the top job at NASA.\n\nAccording to U.S. Census data as of 2010, whites alone make up 67.1% of the population, African Americans 9.0%, Native Americans at 6.6%, Hispanics at 9.8%, Asians at 2.1 and other races at 5.4%.\n\nThe district was the only Congressional district represented by a Republican upon statehood. For much of the district's history, it has shifted back and forth between the two political parties. However, it has leaned increasingly Republican since the second half of the 20th century. Since 1945, only one Democrat has served more than one term in the district. It has been in Republican hands without interruption since 1987. Mitt Romney received 66 percent of the vote in this district in 2012.\n\nOklahoma's current senior Senator, Jim Inhofe, represented this district from 1987 to 1994. His three successors, Steve Largent, John Sullivan and Jim Bridenstine, have all been Republicans.\n\n", "id": "7737404", "categories": [], "title": "Oklahoma's 1st congressional district"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737429", "text": "George Page (television presenter)\n\nGeorge Henson Page (31 March 1935 – 28 June 2006) was an American television host, known for his love for nature and his unique and mellifluous voice. He created the PBS series \"Nature\", and hosted and narrated it from its beginning in 1982 until his retirement in 1998. He was also the director of Science and Natural History Programming at the PBS station Thirteen/WNET. In between seasons of \"Nature\", he also hosted and narrated two series: \"The Brain\" (1983) and \"The Mind\" (1988). Before his time with PBS, Page had a long career in broadcast journalism, mostly at NBC. In 1990, Emory University, the school Page had graduated from in 1957, awarded him with the honorary degree Doctor of Humane Letters, citing his \"contributions to science education in the United States\".\n\nIn May 1995, Page was awarded another honorary degree from Pace University, for helping television viewers \"understand and celebrate in all its diversity the world in which we live.\" George Page died June 28, 2006 in Equinunk, Pennsylvania.\n\nPage also wrote the book \"Inside the Animal Mind\", published in 1999.\n\n", "id": "7737429", "categories": ["Deaths from cancer in Pennsylvania", "2006 deaths", "American television personalities", "1935 births"], "title": "George Page (television presenter)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737437", "text": "Cameron Mann\n\nCameron Douglas Mann (born April 20, 1977) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey Winger who played in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the Boston Bruins and Nashville Predators. He finished his career with the EIHL's Nottingham Panthers, initially signing with the team on July 22, 2009. \n\nAn alumnus of the Red Lake District Minor Hockey Association and the Peterborough Petes of the OHL, Mann was drafted 99th overall by the Boston Bruins in the 1995 NHL Entry Draft and appeared in 90 NHL games with the Bruins over four seasons. He was traded to the Dallas Stars in June 2001 for Richard Jackman but remained with their American Hockey League affiliate the Utah Grizzlies and never played for the Stars. He was then traded to the Nashville Predators in June 2002 for David Gosselin and a 5th round pick in the 2003 Draft. Mann went on to play just 4 games for the Predators.\n\nIn 2003, Mann moved on to the European League and signed with ERC Ingolstadt of the Deutsche Eishockey Liga and stayed for four seasons. He moved to Finland's SM-liiga in 2007 and signed with Ilves before returning to Germany in 2008, signed for Oberliga side Herver EV and then moved to EV Duisburg Die Füchse. For the 2009-2010 season Mann played in Nottingham for the Panthers winning a Challenge Cup and won team MVP honors.\n\nMann retired from professional hockey on April 7, 2010, announcing his retirement after the Panthers finished third in the 2009–10 EIHL playoffs. Since his retirement, Mann joined the OJHL's Peterborough Stars as an assistant coach. As of March 2012 the Peterborough Stars ceased operations, merging with the Lindsay Muskies and ending his association with the team.\n\nMann was born in Thompson, Manitoba but was raised in Balmertown, Ontario.\n", "id": "7737437", "categories": ["Canadian expatriate ice hockey players in Finland", "Canadian ice hockey right wingers", "Füchse Duisburg players", "Boston Bruins draft picks", "Ice hockey people from Ontario", "People from Kenora District", "Milwaukee Admirals players", "1977 births", "Canadian expatriate ice hockey players in England", "Ilves players", "Living people", "Ice hockey people from Manitoba", "Boston Bruins players", "ERC Ingolstadt players", "Providence Bruins players", "Utah Grizzlies (AHL) players", "Peterborough Petes (ice hockey) players", "Nashville Predators players", "People from Thompson, Manitoba", "Nottingham Panthers players"], "title": "Cameron Mann"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737438", "text": "Queene's Day\n\nQueene's Day celebrates the accession of Queen Elizabeth I to the throne of England on November 17, 1558. Observance of the accession was a national holiday in England and Wales for about 300 years, often with the building of enormous bonfires. It was revived in the village of Berry Pomeroy in Devon in 2005.\n\nCelebrations begin with evensong in the Berry Pomeroy parish church and culminate with a bonfire in the adjacent field, upon which is burned an effigy of Satan.\n", "id": "7737438", "categories": ["Public holidays in the United Kingdom"], "title": "Queene's Day"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737441", "text": "Oklahoma's 2nd congressional district\n\nOklahoma's Second Congressional District is one of five United States Congressional districts in Oklahoma and covers approximately one-fourth of the state in the east. The district borders Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri, and Texas and includes (in whole or in part) a total of 24 counties.\n\nHistorically, the district has supported conservative Democrats, and was reckoned as a classic Yellow Dog Democrat district. However, the growing Republican trend in the state has overtaken the district since the start of the 21st century. In the last two elections, the Republican presidential candidate has carried it by the largest margin in the state. Urban voters represent a third of the district.\n\nThe district is represented by Republican Markwayne Mullin, becoming only the second Republican after Tom Coburn to hold the seat since 1921.\n\nThe district borders Kansas to the north, Missouri and Arkansas to the east, and Texas (along the Red River) to the south. It covers all or part of 26 counties. It includes the remainder of Rogers County (including the county seat of Claremore) that is not included in the 1st District, and then, also, all of the following counties: Adair, Nowata, Craig, Ottawa, Mayes, Delaware, Cherokee, Okmulgee, Muskogee, Sequoyah, Okfuskee, McIntosh, Haskell, LeFlore, Hughes, Pittsburg, Latimer, Coal, Atoka, Pushmataha, McCurtain, Choctaw, Bryan, Marshall and Johnston.\n\nSome of the principal cities in the district include Miami, Claremore, Muskogee, Tahlequah, Okmulgee, McAlester, and Durant.\n\nThe northern half of the district includes most of the area of Oklahoma referred to as Green Country, while the southern half of the district includes a part of Oklahoma often referred to as Little Dixie.\n\nAccording to the 2000 U.S. Census, the district is 35.51 percent urban, 23.95 percent non-white, and has a population that is 2.40 percent Latino and 1.36 percent foreign-born. The district has a higher percentage of Native Americans than any other congressional district in Oklahoma. Its representative, Markwayne Mullin, is one of two Native Americans currently serving in Congress.\n\nPresidential races\n\n\"Source: 2004 Election Results, via OK.gov\"\n\n\"Source: 2006 Election Results, via OK.gov\"\n\n\"Source: 2008 Election Results, via OK.gov\"\n\n\"Source: 2010 Election Results, via OK.gov\"\n\nThe district heavily favored conservative Democratic candidates, with only three Republicans taking the district. The district shifted Republican most notably in electing Tom Coburn, who vacated the seat due to a self-imposed term limit pledge (He was elected to the United States Senate 4 years later). It has since been held by Brad Carson and Dan Boren. In 2012-2018 the 2nd elected a Republican to the House, the current Representative Markwayne Mullin.\n\nThe district's Democratic leanings stem partly from historic migration patterns into the state. The Little Dixie region of the district imported the people and culture of southern states such as Mississippi after Reconstruction. Voter registration in Little Dixie runs as high as 90 percent Democratic. Additionally, Native Americans in the region tend to vote for Democratic candidates and they have helped Democratic candidates win statewide elections.\n\nHistorically this is where Democratic presidential candidates perform best in the state. Bill Clinton easily carried the district in 1992 and 1996. However, the district has been swept up in the growing Republican trend in Oklahoma. George W. Bush received 59 percent of the vote in this district in 2004. John McCain received 66 percent of the vote in this district in 2008.\n\nMuskogee has produced six representatives, more than any other city in the district. Tahlequah has produced three representatives, the second most of any city in the district.\n\n", "id": "7737441", "categories": ["Congressional districts of Oklahoma"], "title": "Oklahoma's 2nd congressional district"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737468", "text": "Colorado River Bridge at Bastrop\n\nThe Colorado River Bridge at Bastrop is a -long bridge with three steel truss spans and concrete piers that crosses the Colorado River as part of Loop 150 through Bastrop, Texas. The three bridge spans over the river consist of identical Parker through trusses, each in length, supported on concrete piers. The bridge is one of the earliest surviving uses of the Parker truss in Texas.\n\nThe Colorado River Bridge was the second bridge crossing at this location. The first bridge at the crossing was built from 1889 to 1890 at a cost of $45,000. This bridge replaced the ferries across the river, which had been in use since the 1830s. The bridge was in length. It was originally a toll bridge, but was later purchased by the county and the tolls were removed.\n\nWith automobiles becoming the dominant form of transportation in the United States after World War I, a new bridge was needed to handle the increasing traffic between Houston and Austin. The original estimate of the cost of the Colorado River Bridge was $40,000 and was partially financed by bonds issued by Bastrop County. The rest was paid for with federal funds disbursed by the Texas State Highway Department. Bids on the project were solicited and the Kansas City Bridge Co. was selected as contractor. The final cost of the bridge's construction was $167,500. The bridge was completed in 1923 and opened for use in January 1924. The original bridge was sold and torn down in the early 1930s.\n\nOwnership of the Colorado River Bridge probably passed from the county to the state during the Great Depression, as the local governments did not have the funds to maintain their road systems.\n\nGrowth in Bastrop in the 1990s strained the capacity of the narrow two-lane bridge. A wider concrete beam bridge was built parallel to the Colorado River Bridge. The State of Texas transferred ownership of the truss bridge to the City of Bastrop and the bridge became a pedestrian walkway. The bridge is also used for special events such as the annual \"Art on the Bridge\" art show and sale. The bridge was listed in the National Register of Historic Places on July 19, 1990.\n\n", "id": "7737468", "categories": ["Former toll bridges in Texas", "Bridges completed in 1890", "National Register of Historic Places in Bastrop County, Texas", "Steel bridges in the United States", "Road bridges on the National Register of Historic Places in Texas", "Buildings and structures in Bastrop County, Texas", "Bridges over the Colorado River (Texas)", "Bridges completed in 1923", "Road bridges in Texas", "Transportation in Bastrop County, Texas"], "title": "Colorado River Bridge at Bastrop"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737482", "text": "University of Duhok\n\nThe University of Duhok (UoD) is a fast-growing institution in the city of Duhok. It plays a vital role in developing the community by instigating socioeconomic, cultural, scientific as well as educational progress in the northern part of Iraq. Graduates from the University of Duhok currently contribute to the enhancement and capacity building in the public and private sectors of the Duhok Governorate.\n\nThe University of Duhok was founded on 31 October 1992, following a resolution by the Parliament of the Kurdistan Regional Government to address the increasing demand for higher education in the region. The first colleges to be established in the university were the College of Medicine and the College of Agriculture. Initially, the Medical College had 48 students while the College of Agriculture had 166. During the first two years, the two embargoes imposed by the UN on Iraq and by the Iraqi Central Government on Kurdistan contributed to the slow-paced growth of the University and the poor economic conditions in Kurdistan. After these hardships had passed, the university found itself in a position to steer towards advancement and fresh growth. Today, the UoD has 18 colleges with 76 Departments, more than 19615 undergraduate students and 655 postgraduate students.\n\nThe UoD provides facilities such as laboratories, libraries, computing services, sports facilities, housing accommodations and extra-curricular activities to all registered students.\n\nThe University of Duhok is a member of International Association of Universities (IAU), European Association for International Education (EAIE)], and Association of Arab Universities (AARU).\n\nDuhok University website\n\n", "id": "7737482", "categories": ["Universities in Iraq", "1992 establishments in Iraq", "Dohuk", "Educational institutions established in 1992", "Universities in Iraqi Kurdistan", "Public universities"], "title": "University of Duhok"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737486", "text": "José Albuquerque\n\nJosé Anastácio de Albuquerque (born December 7, 1975 in Senador José Porfírio, Pará) is a Brazilian boxer, who represented his native country in the flyweight division at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia. There he was eliminated in the first round by Ukraine's Valeriy Sydorenko.\n\n", "id": "7737486", "categories": ["Boxers at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "Flyweight boxers", "Brazilian male boxers", "Living people", "1975 births", "Olympic boxers of Brazil"], "title": "José Albuquerque"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737543", "text": "Kelson Pinto\n\nKelson Carlos Santos Pinto (born November 26, 1976) is a Brazilian former professional boxer and world title challenger. As an amateur, he won a gold medal at the 1999 Pan American Games.\n\nPinto represented his native country in the light welterweight division at the 2000 Summer Olympics. He was eliminated in the second round by Uzbekistan's eventual gold medalist Mahammatkodir Abdoollayev.\n\n\nPinto turned professional in 2000 and remained undefeated until fighting Miguel Cotto (whom he had defeated as an amateur) for the WBO junior welterweight title in 2004. Cotto defeated him by KO in 2004. In 2005, Pinto lost to veteran Vince Phillips.\n\n", "id": "7737543", "categories": ["Light-welterweight boxers", "Boxers at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "Boxers at the 1999 Pan American Games", "1976 births", "Pan American Games gold medalists for Brazil", "Pan American Games medalists in boxing", "Brazilian male boxers", "Living people", "Olympic boxers of Brazil"], "title": "Kelson Pinto"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737558", "text": "Anthony Herbert (rugby)\n\nAnthony Herbert (born 13 August 1966) is a former Australian rugby footballer who represented Australia at rugby union. He represented the Wallabies on a number of occasions during the late 1980s and early 1990s. He was also a part of the Australian squad that won the 1991 Rugby World Cup in England.\n\nHerbert attended Marist College, Ashgrove.\n\nHis brother Daniel was also an Australian rugby union representative player.\n\nHerbert made his debut for the Wallabies on 17 May 1987 in a match against Korea. He came off the bench as a replacement, and the Wallabies eventually won the match 65 points to 18, at Ballymore in Brisbane. He was also in the squad to play Ireland in June but was not used off the bench, but did earn another cap against France on 13 June.\n\nHe next played for the Wallabies in June 1990, as a replacement against France. He got his first match in the starting lineup against the USA, which Australia won 67-9. Herbert then played two Tests against the All Blacks for the Bledisloe Cup; Australia lost the first 17-27 at Eden Park in Auckland, but won the second 9-21 at Athletic Park in Wellington.\n\nHerbert was included in Australia's Rugby World Cup squad for the second tournament, taking place in England in 1991. He started in the match against Samoa in Pontypool, which the Wallabes won 9-3. Australia eventually won the World Cup.\n\nHe next played for the Wallabies in a Bledisloe Cup match against the All Blacks in Sydney in 1992. Australia lost 23-26, though Herbert scored one of the Wallabies' two tries. He also played in the 1993 Bledisloe match at Carisbrook, Dunedin, which the Wallabies lost 25-10. His last match for the Wallabies was the 28-20 victory over South Africa in 1993 at Ballymore, Brisbane.\n\nHerbert played two matches for the new South Queensland Crushers franchise in 1995.\n\n", "id": "7737558", "categories": ["1966 births", "Australian rugby league players", "Living people", "Australia international rugby union players", "Australian rugby union players", "South Queensland Crushers players"], "title": "Anthony Herbert (rugby)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737585", "text": "Desert Hot Springs High School\n\nDesert Hot Springs High School, also abbreviated as DHSHS, is a public high school for grades 9–12. It is located in Desert Hot Springs, California. The school is one of four comprehensive high schools in the Palm Springs Unified School District.\n\nDesert Hot Springs High School opened on September 7, 1999, with an initial enrollment of 642. The school began with freshmen and sophomores and added a class each year with graduating its first class of 162 seniors in June 2002. Desert Hot Springs High School serves students from the communities of Desert Hot Springs, North Palm Springs, Sky Valley, and the unincorporated areas of Painted Hills and Mission Lakes.\n\nThe student population in the 2007–2008 school year was 1974.\n\n3. http://www.desertsun.com/story/sports/high-school/2017/05/13/dhs-boys-tennis-team-ends-historic-season-lays-groundwork-future-success/313543001/", "id": "7737585", "categories": ["Palm Springs Unified School District", "Public high schools in California", "1999 establishments in California", "Desert Hot Springs, California", "High schools in Riverside County, California", "Educational institutions established in 1999"], "title": "Desert Hot Springs High School"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737601", "text": "Narrabri Shire\n\nNarrabri Shire is a local government area in the North West Slopes region of New South Wales, Australia. The Shire is located adjacent to the Namoi River and the Newell and Kamilaroi Highways.\n\nThe Mayor of Narrabri Shire Council is Cr. Cathy Redding, who is an Independent.\n\nThe seat of Council and major town in the Shire is Narrabri. Other towns, villages and localities in the Shire include Baan Baa, Bellata, Boggabri, Edgeroi, Gwabegar, Pilliga, and Wee Waa.\n\nThe Narrabri Shire has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nAt the , there were people in the Narrabri local government area, of these 50.1 per cent were male and 49.9 per cent were female. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people made up 10.7% of the population which is more than four times higher than both the national and state averages. The median age of people in the Narrabri Shire was 39 years; slightly higher than the national median of 37 years. Children aged 0 – 14 years made up 22.2% of the population and people aged 65 years and over made up 15.7% of the population. Of people in the area aged 15 years and over, half were married and 10.3% were either divorced or separated.\n\nBetween the 2001 census and the 2011 census the Narrabri Shire experienced negative population growth in both absolute and real terms. When compared with total population growth of Australia for the same periods, being 5.78% and 8.32% respectively, population growth in the Narrabri local government area was significantly lower than the national average. The median weekly income for residents within the Narrabri Shire was significantly below the national average.\n\nAt the 2011 census, the proportion of residents in the Narrabri local government area who stated their ancestry as Australian or Anglo-Saxon exceeded 88% of all residents (national average was 65.2%). In excess of 80% of all residents in the Narrabri Shire nominated a religious affiliation with Christianity at the 2011 census, which was significantly higher than the national average of 50.2%. Meanwhile, as at the census date, compared to the national average, households in the Narrabri local government area had a significantly lower than average proportion (2.3%) where two or more languages are spoken (national average was 20.4%); and a significantly higher proportion (93.6%) where English only was spoken at home (national average was 76.8%).\n\nNarrabri Shire Council is composed of nine Councillors elected proportionally as a single ward. All Councillors are elected for a fixed four-year term of office. The Mayor is elected by the Councillors at the first meeting of the Council. The most recent election was held on 10 September 2016, and the makeup of the Council is as follows:\n\nThe current Council, elected in 2016, in order of election, is:\n", "id": "7737601", "categories": ["Newell Highway", "Local government areas of New South Wales"], "title": "Narrabri Shire"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737602", "text": "Aquamid\n\nAquamid is a non-absorbable soft volume filler for aesthetic and reconstructive purposes. Aquamid is the trade name for a specific formulation of 97.5% water for injection and 2.5% cross-linked polyacrylamide. It is injected subcutaneously to correct wrinkles and folds or to add volume. Common aesthetic indications are nasolabial folds, lip augmentation, cheek contouring, nose enhancement. Aquamid is also used to correct signs of facial lipoatrophy or fat wasting in HIV+ patients.\n\nAquamid has been evaluated in several clinical trials involving more than 5,000 patients including a comparative trial in the United States. Data from this trial has been used to support a PMA application to the FDA. Aquamid is not yet approved for sale in the United States. \n\nAquamid is developed, produced and commercialized by Contura International. It was approved in Europe in 2001 for facial augmentation and minor body contouring and is available in several countries in Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Latin America.\n\n", "id": "7737602", "categories": ["Acrylate polymers", "Plastic surgery filler", "Polyelectrolytes"], "title": "Aquamid"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737613", "text": "Pallimnarchus\n\nPallimnarchus is an extinct genus of mekosuchine crocodylians from the Pliocene and Pleistocene of Australia. Remains of this animal have been found in the Riversleigh lagerstätte of northwestern Queensland. It was a medium-sized crocodile, estimated to grow up to 5 metres in length. It had conical teeth with serrate carinae, and an extremely broad snout, features that probably allowed it to specialise in ambushing prey in shallow water.\n\nThe generic name, Pallimnarchus, is derived from a crasis compound word of \"Pan\", \"Limnos\" and \"Archon\", which together mean \"ruler of all the swamps\".\n", "id": "7737613", "categories": ["Riversleigh fauna", "Pleistocene crocodylomorphs", "Mekosuchinae", "Pleistocene genus extinctions", "Pliocene crocodylomorphs", "Fossil taxa described in 1886"], "title": "Pallimnarchus"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737614", "text": "Cleiton Conceição\n\nCleiton Conceição (born November 1, 1978 in Cruz das Almas, Bahia) is a Brazilian boxer, who represented his native country in the middleweight division at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia. There he was eliminated in the first round by Jeff Lacy of the United States.\n\n", "id": "7737614", "categories": ["Boxers at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "1979 births", "Brazilian male boxers", "Living people", "Middleweight boxers", "Olympic boxers of Brazil"], "title": "Cleiton Conceição"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737616", "text": "Blood River\n\nBlood River (; ) is situated in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. This river has its sources in the hills south-east of Utrecht; leaving the highlands it is joined by two important tributaries that originate in the Schurveberg, after which it flows meandering through a sandy plain. The Blood River is a tributary of the Buffalo River, which is a tributary of the Tugela River which it joins from the north-east.\n\nThis river is so named after the Battle of Blood River in which Zulu King Dingaan was defeated by Andries Pretorius' troops on 16 December 1838.\n\nThe Blood River Vlei, located about 20 km to the south-west of Vryheid, is one of the biggest inland wetlands in South Africa and the wintering place of migratory birds such as ducks and geese.\n\n\n", "id": "7737616", "categories": ["Rivers of South Africa", "Rivers of KwaZulu-Natal", "Tugela River"], "title": "Blood River"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737625", "text": "Heaven (John Legend song)\n\n\"Heaven\" is a song by John Legend from the album, \"Once Again\" (2006). It was written and produced by himself and musician Kanye West and released as the album's second single in fall 2006. The remix of the song, released to the iTunes Store in February 2007, features Pusha T. A special EP also features the a cappella version of the remix, the album version and the instrumental of \"Heaven\".\n\nA moderate commercial success, \"Heaven\" reached number 26 on \"Billboard\"s Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs in the United States, but failed to enter the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. Released to critical success however, it won Legend his second consecutive Grammy Award for Best Male R&B Vocal Performance at the 49th award ceremony. The song produced two music videos, the first one featuring women posed as various Renaissance era paintings. The second one features more John Legend himself and less posture women. Both videos were shot at Highclere Castle in the UK and was directed by Hype Williams.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7737625", "categories": ["2006 songs", "Music videos directed by Hype Williams", "Song recordings produced by Kanye West", "2006 singles", "Songs written by John Legend", "John Legend songs", "GOOD Music singles"], "title": "Heaven (John Legend song)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737628", "text": "Patrick Colleter\n\nPatrick Colleter (born 6 November 1965) is a former French professional footballer who played as a full back.\n\nColleter begin his football career with his local team Brest in 1986. After some impressive performances, Colleter was rewarded with a call-up to the French B national team, and a transfer to Montpellier in 1990. After one season at the southern club he spent five seasons at Paris Saint-Germain, where he won the Ligue 1 in 1994, the Coupe de France in 1993 and 1995 and the Coupe de la Ligue in 1995 as well as the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1996. In 1996, he left Paris to enjoy single-season spells at Bordeaux and Olympique de Marseille.\n\nIn December 1998, he was signed by Southampton for £300,000. He made his debut at left-back on 26 December 1998 at home to Chelsea taking the place of the Saints' long-established left-back Francis Benali. He scored one goal for the club, a long-range strike in a 3-1 victory at home to Charlton Athletic on 9 January 1999.\n\nHe was a fiery but capable full-back, but his career at Southampton suffered following Dave Jones' replacement as manager by Glenn Hoddle. Hoddle was not keen on the Gallic method of defending and Colleter was left to grow frustrated in the reserves. Colleter eventually left Southampton in November 2000 he moved back to French football with Cannes. In all he played 26 games for Southampton, scoring once.\n\nAfter two seasons at Cannes, Colleter left in December 2002 to play for Saint-Médard-en-Jalles before becoming a coach at Bordeaux.\n\n", "id": "7737628", "categories": ["Paris Saint-Germain F.C. players", "Stade Brestois 29 players", "1965 births", "Southampton F.C. players", "Ligue 1 players", "French footballers", "French expatriate footballers", "AS Cannes players", "Premier League players", "Olympique de Marseille players", "Living people", "Montpellier HSC players", "FC Girondins de Bordeaux players", "Sportspeople from Brest, France", "Association football fullbacks", "Expatriate footballers in England"], "title": "Patrick Colleter"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737640", "text": "Crossings of the Yarra River\n\nThe Yarra River is a river in southern Victoria, Australia; which flows through the city of Melbourne. Over the river's length there are many structures that bridge the river.\n\nThe following is a partial list of structures that fully span the Yarra River in order of closest to the mouth of the river in Hobsons Bay.\n\n\n", "id": "7737640", "categories": ["Lists of bridges in Australia", "Bridges in Victoria (Australia)", "Crossings of the Yarra River", "Geography of Melbourne", "Lists of buildings and structures in Victoria (Australia)", "Rivers of Victoria (Australia)"], "title": "Crossings of the Yarra River"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737649", "text": "Library damage resulting from the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake\n\nLibrary damage resulting from the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake has been reported in six Asian countries. On December 26, the massive 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake struck off the northwest coast of the Indonesian island of Sumatra. The resulting tsunamis killed more than 180,000 people. In addition to the loss of human lives, cultural institutions were destroyed in several Asian nations. Libraries on the Eastern coast of Sri Lanka and the northern province of Aceh on Sumatra were most severely affected by the disaster.\n\nDamage to libraries in India has not been well documented. Water damage was reported at Madras University Library in Chennai. The Asian Development Bank reports extensive damage to schools in the Indian states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. A government assessment found that 252 schools in Tamil Nadu need complete reconstruction, 19 need major repairs and 49 need minor repairs.\n\nIn the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 78 teachers are listed as killed or missing. Further, 25 percent of primary schools, 33 percent of upper primary schools, and 31 percent of senior secondary schools were seriously damaged, indicating that school libraries in the region also suffered damage.\n\nThe Sumatran province of Aceh was severely damaged by the earthquake and resulting tsunami. An estimated 167,736 Indonesians were killed and 25% of Achenese lost their source of livelihood. Banda Aceh, Aceh's capital, was the closest major city to the earthquake's epicenter, and many of its major libraries suffered extensive damage.\n\nThe Aceh Provincial Library (BPD) was inundated with three meters of water. Twenty three staff members were killed, including the library's director, Bachtiar Azis, who is listed as missing along with his family. In addition to loss of life, the BPD suffered physical damage and a near total loss of its collection. Concrete and steel fences surrounding the two-story building were mostly destroyed, however, the building itself remained standing. All library materials housed on the first floor were swept away by the waves and the floor was covered in 30 cm-thick mud. These lost materials comprise most of its children’s, young adult and adult collections. The water did not reach the second floor, but looting resulted in the loss of most materials and equipment. A collection of books received under legal deposit and housed on the second floor was left undisturbed and survived the disaster and looting intact. Despite these losses, the BPD reopened to the public in May 2005. As of August 2005, repairs were still being made to the building, the library lacked computers for its \"warintek\" (information technology section), and most areas of the library needed furnishing and collection replacement.\n\nOf Aceh's eight public libraries, two were completely destroyed. These libraries were located in the hard-hit cities of Meulaboh and Sigli.\n\nMobile library units, or \"perpustakaan keliling\", are used to serve rural areas of Aceh. Days before the earthquake and tsunami, the BPD had received two newly built mobile library units from the National Library of Indonesia. Both of these were destroyed along with the rest of the mobile libraries parked on the BPD's carport. In July 2005, the National Library donated two replacement mobile units, however the new BPD director noted that further units were needed to adequately serve outlying regions of the province.\n\nThe Aceh Documentation and Information Center, known for its collection of rare books and manuscripts chronicling the heritage of Aceh, was completely destroyed. Only half of the building remained standing, and the entire collection was swept away. A team from the National Library of Indonesia visiting in January 2005 was able to salvage only three books and one sheet of the genealogy of the Muslim kings of Aceh. These were taken to Jakarta for restoration.\n\nThe Provincial Archives Agency lost 80 percent of the photographs in its collection. The Secretariat Office of the Aceh Province lost 160 boxes of records.\n\nThe Aceh branch of the National Land Register Agency was inundated with water. Roughly 629 boxes of materials certifying individual land ownership in the province were damaged. Due to the efforts of a team of conservators from Japan and archivists from the National Archives in Jakarta, many of these land register documents were preserved.\n\nDamage to school libraries has not been well documented. The Indonesia National Library reports that SMA 1, a high school in Banda Aceh, was not damaged by flood waters as it is located on the second floor, however, did experience some earthquake damage. Overall, 2,364 teachers and staff members were killed and 2,240 schools were destroyed on Sumatra and its outlying islands.\n\nThe Central Library at the Ar-Raniri Institute for Islamic Studies, a public Islamic University in Banda Aceh, lost its information servers due to theft and seawater damage.\n\nBaiturrahman Grand Mosque Library in Banda Aceh lost its entire collection. Due to the mosque's central location and importance to the community, a concerted effort was made to clear and repair this complex of buildings immediately after the tsunami. As of August 2005 the library had reopened with 1,200 books in its collection.\nThe library of the Agricultural Information Institute of Banda Aceh was inundated with water from the tsunami but its physical structure remained intact.\n\nThe Library and Museum of the Ali Hasymy Educational Foundation survived intact as the tsunami did not reach this area of Banda Aceh.\n\nAccording to a Malaysian professor of library science, damage to libraries was minimal in Malaysia.\n\nAll of the 199 inhabited islands comprising the Maldives atolls were affected by the tsunami. The Maldives Library Association was not able to survey all public libraries across the atoll, however, a representative indicated some libraries were completely destroyed.\n\nForty-six percent of schools in the Maldives were damaged, and nine schools were completely destroyed.\n\nDamage to libraries in Thailand has not been well documented. The Ministry of Education has reported that five schools were completely destroyed and 51 schools were damaged.\n\nMore than 35,000 Sri Lankans were killed and 516,000 people were displaced as a result of the tsunami. Roughly 60 percent of the coastal area of Sri Lanka was severely affected by the tsunami. Libraries across the country were damaged, and it is estimated that 1.2 million volumes of books and other reading materials were destroyed in the disaster. Out of the 950 public libraries in Sri Lanka, 55 libraries were affected and 28 were completely destroyed. Several libraries were used as refuge centres or hospitals in the aftermath of the tsunami, and surviving furniture and collections suffered as a result.\n\nOne estimate of damage to school libraries in Sri Lanka indicates that of the 9,790 schools in the country, 182 schools were directly affected by the tsunami and an additional 282 schools were damaged because of their use as refugee camps after the tsunami. While not all of these schools had a full-fledged library, most had a book closet or other collection of materials. At least 165 school libraries were damaged by the tsunami. Compounding the damage, many schools had large collection of textbooks on hand for distribution to students at the beginning of the school year in January. Damage reports range from furniture damage to lost collections to complete destruction of the physical building.\n\nSri Lankan government departments lost public records to the tsunami. In the Southern province, all electoral registers were destroyed, along with 600,000 land deeds from the Department of the Surveyor General.\n\nSixty-eight libraries affiliated with religious institutions and at least three museums were damaged by the tsunami. Many of these libraries were attached to Buddhist temples and contained valuable collections of palm leaf manuscripts and documents relating to Ayurveda, the Indian medical tradition adopted in ancient Sri Lanka.\n\nThe National Maritime Museum in Galle lost 90 percent of its collection, mostly artifacts salvaged from underwater wrecks and archaeology sites. The museum also lost all of its computers and other technical equipment. The collection housed in the Martin Wickramasinghe Folk Museum of Koggala survived relatively unscathed, however the children's library attached to the museum was severely damaged along with most of the museum's furniture. The Maritime Archaeology Unit of the Central Cultural Fund was also severely damaged, resulting in the loss of artifacts from an 18th-century Dutch shipwreck that were eventually to be donated to a museum.\n\nIn the weeks following the disaster, the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions cooperated with UNESCO, the Sri Lanka Library Association, the National Library and Documentation Center of Sri Lanka and other organizations to create the Sri Lanka Disaster Management Committee for Libraries, Information Services and Archives (SL DMC-LISA). The committee worked to secure funding for temporary libraries and computer equipment and began reviewing architectural plans for rebuilding libraries. Further initiatives were developed to encourage \"twinning\" or pairing of Sri Lankan libraries with donors.\n\nIn addition to working with the disaster committee, the Sri Lanka Library Association targeted five libraries for rebuilding with the intent of creating model institutions. As of 2006, three of these libraries had re-opened, while progress on the other two was delayed due to political instability in the region.\n\n", "id": "7737649", "categories": ["Preservation (library and archival science)"], "title": "Library damage resulting from the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737651", "text": "University of Sacramento\n\nThe University of Sacramento was a private, Catholic university that opened in 2005 under the sponsorship of the Legion of Christ, an order of Catholic priests. It developed an ethics program in 2006. Dr. Declan Murphy was named the first dean of its College of Business Administration in 2007.\n\nThe University of Sacramento was part of a global network of universities founded by the Legionaries and their first undergraduate school in the United States. It was the fifteenth university in their network; the other universities are located in Mexico, Italy, Spain, and Chile.\n\nThe college operated on a temporary campus located in Sacramento, California. In June 2007, the University of Sacramento received a gift of land in the proposed development called \"Cordova Hills\", which is an unincorporated area of Sacramento County just east of the former Mather Air Force Base. The university planned to develop the campus and once completed, to have a student body of 5,000 undergraduate and 2,000 graduate students. In May 2009 the college graduated its first class including Associates and bachelor's degrees in varied Business and Human Resources disciplines. Due to funding issues, on July 7, 2011, the university announced that the plans for the University of Sacramento's new campus would be cancelled and the university would close its academic programs effective immediately.\n\n", "id": "7737651", "categories": ["Anahuac universities", "Universities and colleges in Sacramento County, California", "Educational institutions disestablished in 2011", "Educational institutions established in 2004", "Legion of Christ", "Defunct Catholic universities and colleges in the United States", "Defunct universities and colleges in California", "Catholic universities and colleges in California", "Roman Catholic Diocese of Sacramento", "Education in Sacramento, California"], "title": "University of Sacramento"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737653", "text": "Oncogenomics\n\nOncogenomics is a sub-field of genomics that characterizes cancer-associated genes. It focuses on genomic, epigenomic and transcript alterations in cancer.\n\nCancer is a genetic disease caused by accumulation of DNA mutations and epigenetic alterations leading to unrestrained cell proliferation and neoplasm formation. The goal of oncogenomics is to identify new oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes that may provide new insights into cancer diagnosis, predicting clinical outcome of cancers and new targets for cancer therapies. The success of targeted cancer therapies such as Gleevec, Herceptin and Avastin raised the hope for oncogenomics to elucidate new targets for cancer treatment.\nBesides understanding the underlying genetic mechanisms that initiate or drive cancer progression, oncogenomics targets personalized cancer treatment. Cancer develops due to DNA mutations and epigenetic alterations that accumulate randomly. Identifying and targeting the mutations in an individual patient may lead to increased treatment efficacy.\n\nThe completion of the Human Genome Project facilitated the field of oncogenomics and increased the abilities of researchers to find oncogenes. Sequencing technologies and global methylation profiling techniques have been applied to the study of oncogenomics.\n\nThe genomics era began in the 1990s, with the generation of DNA sequences of many organisms. In the 21st century, the completion of the Human Genome Project enabled the study of functional genomics and examining tumor genomes. Cancer is a main focus.\n\nThe epigenomics era largely began more recently, about 2000. One major source of epigenetic change is altered methylation of CpG islands at the promoter region of genes (see DNA methylation in cancer). A number of recently devised methods can assess the DNA methylation status in cancers versus normal tissues. Some methods assess methylation of CpGs located in different classes of loci, including CpG islands, shores, and shelves as well as promoters, gene bodies, and intergenic regions. Cancer is also a major focus of epigenetic studies.\n\nAccess to whole cancer genome sequencing is important to cancer (or cancer genome) research because:\n\nAccess to methylation profiling is important to cancer research because:\n\nThe first cancer genome was sequenced in 2008. This study sequenced a typical acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) genome and its normal counterpart genome obtained from the same patient. The comparison revealed ten mutated genes. Two were already thought to contribute to tumor progression: an internal tandem duplication of the FLT3 receptor tyrosine kinase gene, which activates kinase signaling and is associated with a poor prognosis and a four base insertion in exon 12 of the NPM1 gene (NPMc). These mutations are found in 25-30% of AML tumors and are thought to contribute to disease progression rather than to cause it directly.\n\nThe remaining 8 were new mutations and all were single base changes: Four were in families that are strongly associated with cancer pathogenesis (PTPRT, CDH24, PCLKC and SLC15A1). The other four had no previous association with cancer pathogenesis. They did have potential functions in metabolic pathways that suggested mechanisms by which they could act to promote cancer (KNDC1, GPR124, EB12, GRINC1B)\n\nThese genes are involved in pathways known to contribute to cancer pathogenesis, but before this study most would not have been candidates for targeted gene therapy. This analysis validated the approach of whole cancer genome sequencing in identifying somatic mutations and the importance of parallel sequencing of normal and tumor cell genomes.\n\nIn 2011, the genome of an exceptional bladder cancer patient whose tumor had been eliminated by the drug everolimus was sequenced, revealing mutations in two genes, \"TSC1\" and \"NF2\". The mutations disregulated mTOR, the protein inhibited by everolimus, allowing it to reproduce without limit. As a result, in 2015, the Exceptional Responders Initiative was created at the National Cancer Institute. The initiative allows such exceptional patients (who have responded positively for at least six months to a cancer drug that usually fails) to have their genomes sequenced to identify the relevant mutations. Once identified, other patients could be screened for those mutations and then be given the drug. In 2016 To that end, a nationwide cancer drug trial began in 2015, involving up to twenty-four hundred centers. Patients with appropriate mutations are matched with one of more than forty drugs.\n\nIn 2014 the Center for Molecular Oncology rolled out the MSK-IMPACT test, a screening tool that looks for mutations in 341 cancer-associated genes. By 2015 more than five thousand patients had been screened. Patients with appropriate mutations are eligible to enroll in clinical trials that provide targeted therapy.\n\nGenomics technologies include:\n\n\n\nBioinformatics technologies allow the statistical analysis of genomic data. The functional characteristics of oncogenes has yet to be established. Potential functions include their transformational capabilities relating to tumour formation and specific roles at each stage of cancer development.\n\nAfter the detection of somatic cancer mutations across a cohort of cancer samples, bioinformatic computational analyses can be carried out to identify likely functional and likely driver mutations. There are three main approaches routinely used for this identification: mapping mutations, assessing the effect of mutation of the function of a protein or a regulatory element and finding signs of positive selection across a cohort of tumors. The approaches are not necessarily sequential however, there are important relationships of precedence between elements from the different approaches. Different tools are used at each step.\n\nOperomics aims to integrate genomics, transcriptomics and proteomics to understand the molecular mechanisms that underlie the cancer development.\n\nComparative oncogenomics uses cross-species comparisons to identify oncogenes. This research involves studying cancer genomes, transcriptomes and proteomes in model organisms such as mice, identifying potential oncogenes and referring back to human cancer samples to see whether homologues of these oncogenes are important in causing human cancers. Genetic alterations in mouse models are similar to those found in human cancers. These models are generated by methods including retroviral insertion mutagenesis or graft transplantation of cancerous cells.\n\nMutations provide the raw material for natural selection in evolution and can be caused by errors of DNA replication, the action of exogenous mutagens or endogenous DNA damage. The machinery of replication and genome maintenance can be damaged by mutations, or altered by physiological conditions and differential levels of expression in cancer (see references in ).\n\nAs pointed out by Gao et al., the stability and integrity of the human genome are maintained by the DNA-damage response (DDR) system. Un-repaired DNA damage is a major cause of mutations that drive carcinogenesis. If DNA repair is deficient, DNA damage tends to accumulate. Such excess DNA damage can increase mutational errors during DNA replication due to error-prone translesion synthesis. Excess DNA damage can also increase epigenetic alterations due to errors during DNA repair. Such mutations and epigenetic alterations can give rise to cancer. DDR genes are often repressed in human cancer by epigenetic mechanisms. Such repression may involve DNA methylation of promoter regions or repression of DDR genes by a microRNA. Epigenetic repression of DDR genes occurs more frequently than gene mutation in many types of cancer (see Cancer epigenetics). Thus, epigenetic repression often plays a more important role than mutation in reducing expression of DDR genes. This reduced expression of DDR genes is likely an important driver of carcinogenesis.\n\nNucleotide sequence context influences mutation probability and analysis of mutational (mutable) DNA motifs can be essential for understanding the mechanisms of mutagenesis in cancer. Such motifs represent the fingerprints of interactions between DNA and mutagens, between DNA and repair/replication/modification enzymes. Examples of motifs are the AID motif WRCY/RGYW (W = A or T, R = purine and Y = pyrimidine) with C to T/G/A mutations, and error-prone DNA pol η attributed AID-related mutations (A to G/C/G) in WA/TW motifs.\n\nAnother (agnostic) way to analyze the observed mutational spectra and DNA sequence context of mutations in tumors involves pooling all mutations of different types and contexts from cancer samples into a discrete distribution. If multiple cancer samples are available, their context-dependent mutations can be represented in the form of a nonnegative matrix. This matrix can be further decomposed into components (mutational signatures) which ideally should describe individual mutagenic factors. Several computational methods have been proposed for solving this decomposition problem. The first implementation of Non-negative Matrix Factorization (NMF) method is available in Sanger Institute Mutational Signature Framework in the form of a MATLAB package. On the other hand, if mutations from a single tumor sample are only available, the DeconstructSigs R package and MutaGene server may provide the identification of contributions of different mutational signatures for a single tumor sample. In addition, MutaGene server provides mutagen or cancer-specific mutational background models and signatures that can be applied to calculate expected DNA and protein site mutability to decouple relative contributions of mutagenesis and selection in carcinogenesis.\n\nSynthetic lethality arises when a combination of deficiencies in the expression of two or more genes leads to cell death, whereas a deficiency in only one of these genes does not. The deficiencies can arise through mutations, epigenetic alterations or inhibitors of one of the genes.\n\nThe therapeutic potential of synthetic lethality as an efficacious anti-cancer strategy is continually improving. Recently, the applicability of synthetic lethality to targeted cancer therapy has heightened due to the recent work of scientists including Ronald A. DePinho and colleagues, in what is termed 'collateral lethality'. Muller et al. found that passenger genes, with chromosomal proximity to tumor suppressor genes, are collaterally deleted in some cancers. Thus, the identification of collaterally deleted redundant genes carrying out an essential cellular function may be the untapped reservoir for then pursuing a synthetic lethality approach. Collateral lethality therefore holds great potential in identification of novel and selective therapeutic targets in oncology. In 2012, Muller et al. identified that homozygous deletion of redundant-essential glycolytic ENO1 gene in human glioblastoma (GBM) is the consequence of proximity to 1p36 tumor suppressor locus deletions and may hold potential for a synthetic lethality approach to GBM inhibition. ENO1 is one of three homologous genes (ENO2, ENO3) that encodes the mammalian alpha-enolase enzyme. ENO2, which encodes enolase 2, is mostly expressed in neural tissues, leading to the postulation that in ENO1-deleted GBM, ENO2 may be the ideal target as the redundant homologue of ENO1. Muller found that both genetic and pharmacological ENO2 inhibition in GBM cells with homozygous ENO1 deletion elicits a synthetic lethality outcome by selective killing of GBM cells. In 2016, Muller and colleagues discovered antibiotic SF2312 as a highly potent nanomolar-range enolase inhibitor which preferentially inhibits glioma cell proliferation and glycolytic flux in ENO1-deleted cells. SF2312 was shown to be more efficacious than pan-enolase inhibitor PhAH and have more specificity for ENO2 inhibition over ENO1. Subsequent work by the same team showed that the same approach could be applied to pancreatic cancer, whereby homozygously deleted SMAD4 results in the collateral deletion of mitochondrial malic enzyme 2 (ME2), an oxidative decarboxylase essential for redox homeostasis. Dey et al. show that ME2 genomic deletion in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cells results in high endogenous reactive oxygen species, consistent with KRAS-driven pancreatic cancer, and essentially primes ME2-null cells for synthetic lethality by depletion of redundant NAD(P)+-dependent isoform ME3. The effects of ME3 depletion were found to be mediated by inhibition of de novo nucleotide synthesis resulting from AMPK activation and mitochondrial ROS-mediated apoptosis. Meanwhile, Oike et al. demonstrated the generalizability of the concept by targeting redundant essential-genes in process other than metabolism, namely the SMARCA4 and SMARCA2 subunits in the chromatin-remodeling SWI/SNF complex.\n\nSome oncogenes are essential for survival of all cells (not only cancer cells). Thus, drugs that knock out these oncogenes (and thereby kill cancer cells) may also damage normal cells, inducing significant illness. However, other genes may be essential to cancer cells but not to healthy cells.\n\nTreatments based on the principle of synthetic lethality have prolonged the survival of cancer patients, and show promise for future advances in reversal of carcinogenesis. A major type of synthetic lethality operates on the DNA repair defect that often initiates a cancer, and is still present in the tumor cells. Some examples are given here.\n\nBRCA1 or BRCA2 expression is deficient in a majority of high-grade breast and ovarian cancers, usually due to epigenetic methylation of its promoter or epigenetic repression by an over-expressed microRNA (see articles BRCA1 and BRCA2). BRCA1 and BRCA2 are important components of the major pathway for homologous recombinational repair of double-strand breaks. If one or the other is deficient, it increases the risk of cancer, especially breast or ovarian cancer. A back-up DNA repair pathway, for some of the damages usually repaired by BRCA1 and BRCA2, depends on PARP1. Thus, many ovarian cancers respond to an FDA-approved treatment with a PARP inhibitor, causing synthetic lethality to cancer cells deficient in BRCA1 or BRCA2. This treatment is also being evaluated for breast cancer and numerous other cancers in Phase III clinical trials in 2016.\n\nThere are two pathways for homologous recombinational repair of double-strand breaks. The major pathway depends on BRCA1, PALB2 and BRCA2 while an alternative pathway depends on RAD52. Pre-clinical studies, involving epigenetically reduced or mutated BRCA-deficient cells (in culture or injected into mice), show that inhibition of RAD52 is synthetically lethal with BRCA-deficiency.\n\nMutations in genes employed in DNA mismatch repair (MMR) cause a high mutation rate. In tumors, such frequent subsequent mutations often generate “non-self” immunogenic antigens. A human Phase II clinical trial, with 41 patients, evaluated one synthetic lethal approach for tumors with or without MMR defects. The product of gene \"PD-1\" ordinarily represses cytotoxic immune responses. Inhibition of this gene allows a greater immune response. When cancer patients with a defect in MMR in their tumors were exposed to an inhibitor of PD-1, 67% - 78% of patients experienced immune-related progression-free survival. In contrast, for patients without defective MMR, addition of PD-1 inhibitor generated only 11% of patients with immune-related progression-free survival. Thus inhibition of PD-1 is primarily synthetically lethal with MMR defects.\n\nARID1A, a chromatin modifier, is required for non-homologous end joining, a major pathway that repairs double-strand breaks in DNA, and also has transcription regulatory roles. ARID1A mutations are one of the 12 most common carcinogenic mutations. Mutation or epigenetically decreased expression of ARID1A has been found in 17 types of cancer. Pre-clinical studies in cells and in mice show that synthetic lethality for ARID1A deficiency occurs by either inhibition of the methyltransferase activity of EZH2, or with addition of the kinase inhibitor dasatinib.\n\nAnother approach is to individually knock out each gene in a genome and observe the effect on normal and cancerous cells. If the knockout of an otherwise nonessential gene has little or no effect on healthy cells, but is lethal to cancerous cells containing a mutated oncogene, then the system-wide suppression of the suppressed gene can destroy cancerous cells while leaving healthy ones relatively undamaged. The technique was used to identify PARP-1 inhibitors to treat BRCA1/BRCA2-associated cancers. In this case, the combined presence of PARP-1 inhibition and of the cancer-associated mutations in BRCA genes is lethal only to the cancerous cells.\n\nThe Cancer Genome Project is an initiative to map out all somatic mutations in cancer. The project systematically sequences the exons and flanking splice junctions of the genomes of primary tumors and cancerous cell lines. COSMIC software displays the data generated from these experiments. As of February 2008, the CGP had identified 4,746 genes and 2,985 mutations in 1,848 tumours.\n\nThe Cancer Genome Anatomy Project includes information of research on cancer genomes, transcriptomes and proteomes.\n\nProgenetix is an oncogenomic reference database, presenting cytogenetic and molecular-cytogenetic tumor data.\n\nOncomine has compiled data from cancer transcriptome profiles.\n\nThe integrative oncogenomics database IntOGen and the Gitools datasets integrate multidimensional human oncogenomic data classified by tumor type. The first version of IntOGen focused on the role of deregulated gene expression and CNV in cancer. A later version emphasized mutational cancer driver genes across 28 tumor types. All releases of IntOGen data are made available at the IntOGen database.\n\nThe International Cancer Genome Consortium is the biggest project to collect human cancer genome data. The data is accessible through the ICGC website. The BioExpress® Oncology Suite contains gene expression data from primary, metastatic and benign tumor samples and normal samples, including matched adjacent controls. The suite includes hematological malignancy samples for many well-known cancers.\n\nSpecific databases for model animals include the Retrovirus Tagged Cancer Gene Database (RTCGD) that compiled research on retroviral and transposon insertional mutagenesis in mouse tumors.\n\nMutational analysis of entire gene families revealed that genes of the same family have similar functions, as predicted by similar coding sequences and protein domains. Two such classes are the kinase family, involved in adding phosphate groups to proteins and the phosphatase family, involved with removing phosphate groups from proteins. These families were first examined because of their apparent role in transducing cellular signals of cell growth or death. In particular, more than 50% of colorectal cancers carry a mutation in a kinase or phosphatase gene. Phosphatidylinositold 3-kinases (PIK3CA) gene encodes for lipid kinases that commonly contain mutations in colorectal, breast, gastric, lung and various other cancers. Drug therapies can inhibit PIK3CA. Another example is the BRAF gene, one of the first to be implicated in melanomas. BRAF encodes a serine/threonine kinase that is involved in the RAS-RAF-MAPK growth signaling pathway. Mutations in BRAF cause constitutive phosphorylation and activity in 59% of melanomas. Before BRAF, the genetic mechanism of melanoma development was unknown and therefore prognosis for patients was poor.\n\nMitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations are linked the formation of tumors. Four types of mtDNA mutations have been identified:\n\nPoint mutations have been observed in the coding and non-coding region of the mtDNA contained in cancer cells. In individuals with bladder, head/neck and lung cancers, the point mutations within the coding region show signs of resembling each other. This suggests that when a healthy cell transforms into a tumor cell (a neoplastic transformation) the mitochondria seem to become homogenous. Abundant point mutations located within the non-coding region, D-loop, of the cancerous mitochondria suggest that mutations within this region might be an important characteristic in some cancers.\n\nThis type of mutation is sporadically detected due to its small size ( < 1kb). The appearance of certain specific mtDNA mutations (264-bp deletion and 66-bp deletion in the complex 1 subunit gene ND1) in multiple types of cancer provide some evidence that small mtDNA deletions might appear at the beginning of tumorigenesis. It also suggests that the amount of mitochondria containing these deletions increases as the tumor progresses. An exception is a relatively large deletion that appears in many cancers (known as the \"common deletion\"), but more mtDNA large scale deletions have been found in normal cells compared to tumor cells. This may be due to a seemingly adaptive process of tumor cells to eliminate any mitochondria that contain these large scale deletions (the \"common deletion\" is > 4kb).\n\nTwo small mtDNA insertions of ~260 and ~520 bp can be present in breast cancer, gastric cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and colon cancer and in normal cells. No correlation between these insertions and cancer are established.\n\nThe characterization of mtDNA via real-time polymerase chain reaction assays shows the presence of quantitative alteration of mtDNA copy number in many cancers. Increase in copy number is expected to occur because of oxidative stress. On the other hand, decrease is thought to be caused by somatic point mutations in the replication origin site of the H-strand and/or the D310 homopolymeric c-stretch in the D-loop region, mutations in the p53 (tumor suppressor gene) mediated pathway and/or inefficient enzyme activity due to POLG mutations. Any increase/decrease in copy number then remains constant within tumor cells. The fact that the amount of mtDNA is constant in tumor cells suggests that the amount of mtDNA is controlled by a much more complicated system in tumor cells, rather than simply altered as a consequence of abnormal cell proliferation. The role of mtDNA content in human cancers apparently varies for particular tumor types or sites.\n57.7% (500/867) contained somatic point putations and of the 1172 mutations surveyed 37.8% (443/1127) were located in the D-loop control region, 13.1% (154/1172) were located in the tRNA or rRNA genes and 49.1% (575/1127) were found in the mRNA genes needed for producing complexes required for mitochondrial respiration.\n\nSome anticancer drugs target mtDNA and have shown positive results in killing tumor cells. Research has used mitochondrial mutations as biomarkers for cancer cell therapy. It is easier to target mutation within mitochondrial DNA versus nuclear DNA because the mitochondrial genome is much smaller and easier to screen for specific mutations. MtDNA content alterations found in blood samples might be able to serve as a screening marker for predicting future cancer susceptibility as well as tracking malignant tumor progression. Along with these potential helpful characteristics of mtDNA, it is not under the control of the cell cycle and is important for maintaining ATP generation and mitochondrial homeostasis. These characteristics make targeting mtDNA a practical therapeutic strategy.\n\nSeveral biomarkers can be useful in cancer staging, prognosis and treatment. They can range from single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), chromosomal aberrations, changes in DNA copy number, microsatellite instability, promoter region methylation, or even high or low protein levels.\n\n", "id": "7737653", "categories": ["Biotechnology", "Applied genetics"], "title": "Oncogenomics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737659", "text": "Oklahoma's 4th congressional district\n\nOklahoma's Fourth Congressional District is located in south-central Oklahoma and covers (in whole or in part) a total of 15 counties. Its principal cities include Midwest City, Norman, Moore, Ada, Duncan, Lawton/Ft. Sill, and Ardmore. The district also includes much of southern Oklahoma City.\n\nThe district is currently represented by Republican Tom Cole.\n\nAs with the rest of the state, the district gives GOP candidates wide margins - George W. Bush received 61 percent of the vote in 2000, 67% in 2004 and John McCain received 66% of the vote in 2008.\n\nThe district borders Texas along the Red River to the south. To the north, the district includes a very small square-shaped portion of south-central Oklahoma County (enough to capture the city of Midwest City) and then Cleveland, McClain, Grady, Garvin, Pontotoc, Comanche, Tillman, Cotton, Stephens, Jefferson, Carter, and Love counties.\n\nThe district is 63 percent urban, 5 percent Latino, and 3.5 percent foreign-born.\n\n\n", "id": "7737659", "categories": [], "title": "Oklahoma's 4th congressional district"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737662", "text": "Lee Jason Simeone\n\nLee Jason Simeone (born 20 March 1980 in Rochford, Essex, England) is an English musician, who joined the independent record label Le Coq Musique in 2008. Other artists of the label include Kevin Mooney of Adam And The Ants, Gary Asquith of Renegade Soundwave. Simeone left the label in 2012 to set up his own \"Vernal Equinox Records\" in London.\n\nSimeone released his debut album \"The Dream Weaver\" on the Le Coq Musique label in 2010. The album won rave reviews from Rough Trade Records and Future Music of Future Publishing. The album also featured Kevin Mooney of Adam and The Ants on bass for one track titled \"Epica\" \n\nLee Simeone's career as a freelance producer/performer had begun when collaborating with various popular artists in 2010 & most notably: the electro-pop pioneer Karel Fialka, Kevin Mooney, Paul Reynolds Ex - A Flock Of Seagulls , Gary Asquith of Renegade Soundwave, Alan Rear (Tony Mansfield, Miguel Bosé). \n\nMooney, Asquith & Fialka featured on Simeone's 2011 release \"An Introduction To Simeone\". A further collaboration with Karel Fialka was to follow where Simeone guesting on drums & backing vocals for his live shows between 2010-2011.<ref name=\"Karel Fialka & Simeone live collaboration / guest performance|\"></ref> Simeone's 2016 offering \"Best Seat In The Dream\" EP contains six new tracks and features guest artists namely; Ex- original Cockney Rebel bandmate Milton-Reame James. Simeone has also appeared in an episode of Ashes to Ashes (TV series) alongside the eighties pop icon Steve Strange.\n\nIn the summer of 2014 Lee made a contribution towards production & mastering duties on the Australian rock band Men at Work Still Life 12\" vinyl EP \" released in 2014 via Sony/ATV. He also recorded & performed a song for it titled \"Star Lane\". It came with a remastered vinyl LP of their 1983 Cargo (album). Its A-side also featured the original band album recording of \"Blue for You\" remastered from the original masters at Abbey Road Studios with mastering engineer Simon Gibson. The EP also features an interview that Lee hosted with the original band member Ron Strykert. \n\nIn 2015 Simeone became the executive producer for a documentary film \"You Better Take Cover\". A film about Men at Work, their hit single Down Under (song), and the Kookaburra (song) controversy. \"You Better Take Cover\" premiered at the Melbourne International Film Festival (2016) winning Best Australian Short Documentary. A further premiere screening at the Manchester International Festival (2016) was met with rave reviews. \n\nLee produced the You Better Take Cover soundtrack album at Abbey Road Studios released via PledgeMusic in 2018 as a tribute to \"Greg Ham\". It successfully reached 105% of its funding goal. The album features collaborations with 3 original band members of Men at Work. Simeone composed two original songs for the album & produced a cover version of Ham's Still Life from the 1985 Two Hearts (Men at Work album). You Better Take Cover OST also features band interviews & material that Ham had worked on before his death in 2012. A percentage of the albums sales were donated to Ham's chosen charity; Turning Point Alcohol and Drug Centre.\n\nSimeone is a member of Neurofibromatosis Inc. (a nonprofit organisation working towards Neurofibromatosis patient support) and supports the charity by making donations from his releases. He is also involved with supporting The Depression Alliance & Turning Point (charity).\n", "id": "7737662", "categories": ["Living people", "English record producers", "English musicians", "1980 births"], "title": "Lee Jason Simeone"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737668", "text": "Oklahoma's 5th congressional district\n\nOklahoma's fifth congressional district is a congressional district in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It borders all of the other congressional districts in the state except the 1st District. It is densely populated and covers almost all of Oklahoma County (except a small sliver located in the 4th District) and all of Pottawatomie and Seminole counties.\n\nPrincipal cities in the district include Oklahoma City (the state capital), Edmond, Shawnee, and Seminole.\n\nThe district is currently represented by Democratic Representative Kendra Horn. In 2018, Horn defeated Republican Steve Russell in his second bid for reelection, marking the first time a Democrat had won the seat in 44 years.\n\nPrior to the opening of the 116th Congress on January 3, 2019, the district had been held by a Republican since January 23, 1975, when Democrat John Jarman changed political parties. Before Jarman, the seat had leaned Democratic since 1931.\n\nGeorge W. Bush received 64 percent of the vote in this district in 2004.\n\nRepublican Mary Fallin won 60 percent of the vote in the 2006 election.\n\nAccording to the 2000 Census, the district is 87.53 percent urban, 26.17 percent non-white, and has a population that is 8.26 percent Latino and 6.76 percent foreign-born. Only 2.74 percent of adults working in the district commute using public transportation, on a bike or on foot. 8.49 percent of adults aged 25 and older in the district have a Master's, PhD or Professional Degree.\n\n", "id": "7737668", "categories": [], "title": "Oklahoma's 5th congressional district"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737679", "text": "Travis Parker\n\nTravis Parker is a professional snowboarder. Taught by his inspiration Jack Zerba. Originally from Jonestown, Texas, his sponsors have included Capita Super, K2 Snowboards, DC Boots, Airblaster, Union Bindings, Level, Lifetime, and Bluebird. In 2005, Parker started riding for Capita, having left longtime sponsor K2. At the end of the 2009 season, Parker quit most of his sponsors, reputedly to become a sushi chef, and dropped out of the snowboarding world. Ahead of the 2011 season, it was announced that Travis was once again riding for K2. Travis is known for his original riding style and approach to snowboarding, including vowing to ride switch for the entire 2009 season.\n\nParker had a pro-model board for several years while on K2, the Parka, and helped Capita develop the Unorthodox (in subsequent seasons known as the Shapeshifter) board, notable for having a cutaway at both nose and tail.\n\nParker featured in a number of Totally Board films. He was a central part of Robot Food, and featured in all three of their films (\"Afterbang\", 2003, \"Lame\", 2004, and \"Afterlame\", 2005). Subsequently, he embarked on a series of films which differed greatly from traditional snowboard films. In \"BikeCar\" (Fountaincat, 2007), Parker, Louie Fountain and Scotty Witlake cycle through the Pacific Northwest in a homemade pedal-driven vehicle, riding at such locations as Mount Bachelor. In 2011's \"December\" webseries, he and Andrew Crawford travel through eastern Europe snowboarding mainly at small or obscure locations, including Zakopane in Poland. The film also features Marco Grilc. Parker also features in \"The Gap Session\" (BlankPaper, 2006) and \"DC Mountain Lab\". His return to professional snowboarding was featured in the movie \"Respect Your Elders\" (Airblaster/K2 Snowboarding, 2010).\n\nIn 2004 Travis founded Snowdays Foundation with educator Patrick Edwards. Snowdays Foundation is an all-volunteer organization dedicated to youth empowerment through snowboarding. In 2005, Parker auctioned part of his snowboard collection; a portion of the proceeds went to Snowdays.\n\nHe now works as a cleaning technician at Ecomaids of Portland in Portland, Oregon.\n\nParker is a co-founder and owner of Airblaster, a snowboarding apparel company.\n\n", "id": "7737679", "categories": ["Living people", "American male snowboarders", "Year of birth missing (living people)"], "title": "Travis Parker"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737685", "text": "Jun Fubuki\n\nJun Fubuki received a Japanese Academy Award Best Supporting Actress nomination for her role in \"Muno no Hito\", and won at the Hochi Film Awards. This role also won Fubuki the \"Best Actress\" award at the Yokohama Film Festival. She also won the award for best actress at the 24th Hochi Film Award for \"Coquille\" and \"Spellbound\".\n\nShe has appeared in Kiyoshi Kurosawa's films such as \"Seance\", \"Charisma\" and \"Pulse\".\n\n\n\n", "id": "7737685", "categories": ["1952 births", "Living people", "Musicians from Toyama Prefecture", "Japanese actresses", "People from Toyama, Toyama"], "title": "Jun Fubuki"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737718", "text": "Akira Otaka\n\n\n", "id": "7737718", "categories": ["Living people", "1957 births", "Place of birth missing (living people)", "Japanese male actors"], "title": "Akira Otaka"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737728", "text": "University of Sulaymaniyah\n\nThe University of Sulaimani is a public university located in the city of Sulaymaniyah in Kurdistan Region - Iraq. It is one of the important scientific and cultural centers in Kurdistan region. It was founded by Professor Dr.Mohammed Salih Beg in 1968 (Dr Salih's project which he submitted to the government in 1958 and agreed in 1968), and re reopened in 1992. The main campus is in Sulaimani city, and satellite campuses are in the towns of Khanaqin, Kalar, Halabja and Chamchamal.\n\nThe university has a total yearly enrollment of more than 4000 undergraduate and postgraduate students. The university offers a variety of major programmes including medical, engineering, humanities, law, fine arts, physical education, political science, degree and in some specialties to postgraduate degrees such as High Diploma, MSc, MA and PhD. The university has a variety of other extracurricular activities, too.\n\nThe university was founded and secured by Professor Dr. Mohammed Mohammed Salih Beg in 1968 (Professor of Modern European History, History of England and Political Science). It was his primary aim in 1958 after gaining his PHD in 1957 from the University of Chicago -United States of America. The University was consisted of five faculties Medicine, Engineering, Science, Agriculture and faculty of Art, but during the years that followed, the number of faculties increased dramatically as a result of growing demands for higher education in the country. In 1981, Ba'ath Regime transferred this academic establishment to the city of Erbil (Hawler) because of political activities against the regime, changing the name to University of Salahaddin.\n\nIn 1992 University of Sulaimani was re opened by tremendous efforts and enthusiasm of many Kurdish intellectuals and academics with the people of Sulaimani and was officially reopened on 14 November. This university is the mother of other universities in Kurdistan. It is the oldest University in Kurdistan proper, therefore, it has its own significance in the history of Kurdistan.\n\nToday University of Sulaimani includes (11) colleges, students obtain BSc and BA degrees in various fields of study. The colleges are:\n\nTo provide the necessary teaching staff, the University also awards MA, MSc and PhD degrees in different fields of study. In 2009-2010 academic year, 24488 students attended classes as full-time students, there are (924) postgraduate students, there are ( 1357 ) teaching staff and ( 2329 ) administration staff too.\n\nApart from the current campus which most of the colleges are located, the new campus of the university is located at the outskirts of Sulaymaniyah city and it is currently under construction, the entire project should be completed by 2012, the new campus is of world standards with to date technologies and modern design, if completed by time it would be the one of the largest campuses in the region, the budget for its construction is nearly 450 million US dollars, despite of the new campus the colleges of Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, and Nursing will remain in the old campus and there were rumors that these four colleges will be categorized as a whole different university under the name (Sulaimani Medical University) or any other name.\n\nApart from this university, there are many technical, medical, and fine arts institutes in Sulaymaniyah.\nIn the city of Sulaymaniyah, the first kidney transplant operation from a living donor kidney was successfully performed by a transplant team in Shoresh General Hospital on the 7th of June 2008 \"Ref1&2\".\n\n", "id": "7737728", "categories": ["University of Sulaymaniyah", "Universities in Iraqi Kurdistan", "1968 establishments in Iraq", "Public universities", "Educational institutions established in 1968"], "title": "University of Sulaymaniyah"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737740", "text": "Local Government Finance Act 1992\n\nThe Local Government Finance Act 1992 includes obligations of the occupants or (in the case of vacant properties) the owners of properties in the United Kingdom to pay council tax.\n\n", "id": "7737740", "categories": ["Local government legislation in England and Wales", "Local taxation in the United Kingdom", "United Kingdom Acts of Parliament 1992"], "title": "Local Government Finance Act 1992"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737752", "text": "6063 aluminium alloy\n\nAA 6063 is an aluminium alloy, with magnesium and silicon as the alloying elements. The standard controlling its composition is maintained by The Aluminum Association. It has generally good mechanical properties and is heat treatable and weldable. It is similar to the British aluminium alloy HE9.\n\n6063 is the most common alloy used for aluminium extrusion. It allows complex shapes to be formed with very smooth surfaces fit for anodizing and so is popular for visible architectural applications such as window frames, door frames, roofs, and sign frames. Applications requiring higher strength typically use 6061 or 6082 instead.\n\nThe alloy composition of 6063 is:\n\n\n\nThe mechanical properties of 6063 depend greatly on the temper, or heat treatment, of the material.\nUn-heat-treated 6063 has maximum tensile strength no more than , and no specified maximum yield strength. The material has elongation (stretch before ultimate failure) of 18%.\n\nT1 temper 6063 has an ultimate tensile strength of at least in thicknesses up to , and from thick, and yield strength of at least in thickness up to and from thick. It has elongation of 12%.\n\nT5 temper 6063 has an ultimate tensile strength of at least in thicknesses up to , and from thick, and yield strength of at least up to and from. It has elongation of 8%.\n\nT6 temper 6063 has an ultimate tensile strength of at least and yield strength of at least . In thicknesses of or less, it has elongation of 8% or more; in thicker sections, it has elongation of 10%.\n\n6063 is also produced in tempers T52, T53, T54, T55, and T832, with various improved desired\nproperties.\n\n6063 is used for architectural fabrication, window and door frames, pipe and tubing, and aluminium furniture.\n\n6063 is highly weldable, using tungsten inert gas welding. Typically, after welding, the properties near the weld are those of 6063-0, a loss of strength of up to 30%. The material can be re-heat-treated to restore a higher temper for the whole piece.\n\n", "id": "7737752", "categories": [], "title": "6063 aluminium alloy"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737757", "text": "Grover (surname)\n\nGrover is a surname found with people in India as well as with people of English ancestry. The two names, however, are distinct in formation and share no common origins. Indians with the last name belong to the Hindu Jat, Sikh Jat or Khatri Hindu groups.\n\nIn India, Grover () is a name in common use by the predominantly by Hindu Khatri Hindu Jat and some sikh communities in Punjab and Haryana. Punjabi is their mother language. One may seldom find this surname in use by some Muslim communities, most of whom live in the Punjab region of India and Pakistan. The Grovers were mostly rich landlords and farmers.\n\nIn Punjab, Grovers are settled in large numbers in Kapurthala, Gurdaspur, Chandigarh, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Malout, Fatehgarh, Patiala, Sangrur, Nabha, Ludhiana, Malerkotla, Moga, Ferozepur, Bathinda, Sirsa, Haryana, Karnal, Ambala and Ropar areas in Malwa, Majha and Doaba, Dhapai and Mandi Dabwali\n\nThe name itself is derived from the original surname Guruvara/Gorovare, (Hindi: गोरोवरा / गोरोवरे), which in turn derives from a Sanskrit word of (\"\"guru/a\"\" /\"गुरु\"\") \"\"teacher/mentor\" hence meaning \"\"the great teacher\"\"..\n\nIn English, the fore- and surname Grover is derived from an occupation involving working in tree groves. It is cognate with the German \"\"Grüber\"\"\n\nNotable individuals with the surname Grover include:\n\n", "id": "7737757", "categories": ["Indian family names", "Occupational surnames"], "title": "Grover (surname)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737763", "text": "Ohlange High School\n\nOhlange High School is a secondary school in Inanda, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. It was founded by John Dube and Nokutela Dube née Mdima. It was the first school in South Africa started by a black person. John Dube was also the first President of what became the ANC. The school was chosen by President Nelson Mandela as the place where he would cast his vote in the first racially inclusive election in South Africa in 1994.\n\nThe school was founded in 1900 as the \"Zulu Christian Industrial School\" by John Langalibalele Dube and his first wife, Nokutela. The school, also known as the \"Ohlange Native Industrial Institute,\" was the first educational institution in South Africa to be founded by a black person. The land for the school was donated by Chief Mqhawe of the AmaQadi. John had been in contact with Booker T. Washington and modeled the school after the Tuskegee University in America. As a result, the \"Zulu Christian Industrial Institute\" laid emphasis on developing self-reliance in its students. In 1901 the school was renamed \"the Ohlange Institute.\" The school was called \"Ohlange\" by Dupe based on the word \"uhlanga\" which means the point of new growth in a plant or an ancestor for a descended family.\n\nThe school was so popular initially that students were sleeping without beds. The finances were difficult in the first few years. A solution to this came from an American committee that supported Dupe's belief that Christian conversion could be achieved via industrial education. A leading member of the committee was the Illinois pastor Sidney Dix Strong who had visited South Africa and had included the Ohlange Institute to his itinerary. Strong's wife died on the journey back to Chicago and Strong decided to use the Ohlange cause to distract himself from his loss.\n\nStrong was able to arrange for the Dube's to meet Douglas and Emaroy June Smith who became rich due to patent medicines and in time from the Pepsodent toothpaste brand. They donated thousands of dollars to the school which enabled for more teachers to be employed. This was in addition to the money that Dube obtained from the family of Anson Phelps Stokes. \n\nBy 1904 the finances needed further attention and Dube was unable to find any help in Natal. He had to return to America and he left John Mdima in charge of both the school and the newspaper. In Brooklyn he met the new chair of the committee S. Parkes Cadman who was pastor of the Central Congregational church in Brooklyn. Cadman reorganised the funding arranging for benefactors to sponsor students for £30 a year and arranging for Dube's helpers and family including John Mdima to go to college. The Dubes spent fifteen months in the states with John speaking and his wife singing. June Emaroy Smith was particularly generous and funded the 1907 construction of a boy's building. Dube noted in his talks that the Afro American was largely Christian whereas the native African had only limited access to the Christian message.\nIn its early years the school taught not only basic education but also vocational skills such as journalism, shoe and dressmaking, carpentry, motor mechanics and agriculture. Dube contributed to the administration as well as teaching journalism. The academic side was not ignored and in 1915 the first Ohlange students went to study at the University College of the Cape of Good Hope. 1917 saw the construction of a girls dormitory. The purpose here was to establish a teacher training centre which was seen as a female career.\n\nEnoch Sontonga song which later became a South African national anthem became better known after Ohlange Institute's choir used it. They played it at the South African Native National Congress meeting in 1912. It was sung after the closing prayer and the ANC adopted it as its official closing anthem in 1925.\n\nOn 27 April 1994, Nelson Mandela cast his vote in his country's first all-race elections at a polling booth in the school. Mandela chose the area because he wanted to give the native black population the confidence to vote. He chose Ohlange school in particular because this is where John Dupe the first President of what was to become the ANC was buried. and he wanted to lay a wreath. Mandela stood by the grave and said\n\"Mr President, I have come to report to you that South Africa is free today\"\n\nEnrollment in 2012 was 865 with nearly 100 boarding at the school. There were just over 60 staff with 34 being teachers in 2012.\n\nThe school had a laboratory and a technical drawing room, a computer and cooking room, a library and 23 other classrooms in 2012. The admin block is in addition and the school had plans in 2012 to add six more classrooms and increase the computing facilities.\n\nIn 2007 Ohlange was amongst several schools recognised as \"historic schools\". Funding of six million rand a year was earmarked for Ohlange, Adams College, Inkamana High School, Inanda Seminary and Vryheid Comprehensive High School to make them academies focusing on Maths, Science and Technology. Anglican Archbishop Emeritus Njongonkulu Ndungane said that they still needed funds and \"little has been achieved since democracy\".\n\nProminent former pupils include the Nobel Laureate Albert Luthuli and the Deputy President Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, who went back to her former school in May 2006 as part of the Global Campaign for Education. Musical alumni include Reuben Caluza, the singer Busi Mhlongo and the jazz musician Victor Ntoni. Sportsman Stephen Mokone also studied here.\n", "id": "7737763", "categories": ["Educational institutions established in 1901", "Schools in KwaZulu-Natal", "1901 establishments in the Colony of Natal", "1901 in South Africa"], "title": "Ohlange High School"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737766", "text": "City of Maitland\n\nThe City of Maitland is a local government area in the lower Hunter region of New South Wales, Australia. The area is situated adjacent to the New England Highway and the Hunter railway line.\n\nThe Mayor of the City of Maitland is Cr. Loretta Baker, a Country Labor politician.\n\nA 2015 review of local government boundaries by the NSW Government Independent Pricing and Regulatory Tribunal recommended the merger of a number of adjoining councils. In the initial proposal, the City of Maitland was not included in any amalgam ation proposals. However, following the lodging of an alternate proposal by Mid-Coast Council Council to amalgamate the Gloucester, Great Lakes and Greater Taree councils, the NSW Minister for Local Government proposed a merger between the Dungog Shire with the City of Maitland. In February 2017, the NSW Government announced that it will not proceed with the proposed amalgamation.\n\nAt the 2011 census, there were people in the City of Maitland local government area, of these 48.9 per cent were male and 51.1 per cent were female. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people made up 3.5 per cent of the population, which was higher than the national and state averages of 2.5 per cent. The median age of people in the City of Maitland was 36 years, which was marginally lower than the national median of 37 years. Children aged 0 – 14 years made up 22.0 per cent of the population and people aged 65 years and over made up 12.7 per cent of the population. Of people in the area aged 15 years and over, 50.9 per cent were married and 11.8 per cent were either divorced or separated.\n\nPopulation growth in the City of Maitland between the 2001 census and the 2006 census was 15.19 per cent; and in the subsequent five years to the 2011 census, population growth was 9.05 per cent. When compared with total population growth of Australia for the same periods, being 5.78 per cent and 8.32 per cent respectively, population growth in the City of Maitland local government area was significantly higher than the national average. The median weekly income for residents within the City of Maitland was approximately equal to the national average.\n\nAt the 2011 census, the proportion of residents in the City of Maitland local government area who stated their ancestry as Australian or Anglo-Celtic exceeded 82 per cent of all residents (national average was 65.2 per cent). In excess of 67% of all residents in the City of Maitland nominated a religious affiliation with Christianity at the 2011 census, which was significantly higher than the national average of 50.2 per cent. Meanwhile, as at the census date, compared to the national average, households in the City of Maitland local government area had a significantly lower than average proportion (4.7 per cent) where two or more languages are spoken (national average was 20.4 per cent); and a significantly higher proportion (93.2 per cent) where English only was spoken at home (national average was 76.8 per cent).\n\nMaitland City Council is composed of thirteen Councillors, including the Mayor, for a fixed four-year term of office. The Mayor is directly elected while the twelve other Councillors are elected proportionally as four separate wards, each electing three Councillors. The most recent election was held on 9 September 2017, and the makeup of the Council, including the Mayor, is as follows:\n\nThe current Council, elected in 2017, in order of election by ward, is:\n", "id": "7737766", "categories": [], "title": "City of Maitland"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737771", "text": "Lebowakgomo High School\n\nLebowakgomo High School is a high school located in Lebowakgomo, Limpopo (formerly known as Lebowa), South Africa. It was built in the 1980s and was the first high school built in Lebowakgomo. The school is located next to Little Bedfordview Primary School. \n\nBefore the school was constructed, high school students in Lebowakgomo attended their classes in Ntsiyekgopu Primary School.\n\nLike many South African schools, the school experienced rioting in the mid 80's. The culture of learning was restored in late eighties. The school prides itself with a number of graduates from universities around South Africa and some that have found their careers overseas. \n\nThe school has since witnessed a significant rise in academic performance of late and continues to grow from strength to strength. \n\nIBM donated computers and a server to the school in 2006 and this led to the school introducing the official high school computer literacy course as a pilot project.\n\nThe class of 2008 was the first ever to write a matric exam on computers as a subject (At the time known as Computer Applications Technology). Despite inadequate support of textbooks and at times educators for the Computer Applications Technology learning area, the students fared relatively well in this pilot project with one of its students notching up a mark in the 90 for the course. \n", "id": "7737771", "categories": ["Schools in Limpopo"], "title": "Lebowakgomo High School"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737773", "text": "Ammi Phillips\n\nAmmi Phillips (April 24, 1788 – July 11, 1865) was an American itinerant portrait painter active in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and New York for five decades. After his death he was forgotten for decades until his oeuvre was reconstructed by Barbara and Larry Holdridge, collectors and students of American folk art, with the eventual support of Mary Black, art historian, after many friendly arguments and challenges to prove their contention that Phillips was not only the Kent Limner but also the earlier Border Limner.\nThe Holdridges' extensive search in three states for Phillips paintings and for biographical details to be found in the Census Bureau and other written records, as well as the fading memories of still-living relatives of the artist and his portrait subjects (from one of whom they learned the pronunciation of the artist's first name, \"Amm-eye\") was triggered by their purchase in 1958 of one of the very few portraits signed on the reverse by the artist: \"George C. Sunderland Painted When at the Age of 21 years by Mr, Ammi, Phillips, In the fall 1840.\"\n\nPhillips was born in Colebrook, Connecticut on April 24, 1788, beginning a life that spanned the period from the beginning of George Washington's presidency to the end of the American Civil War. His extensive, continuously evolving oeuvre over a period of five decades provides posterity with a vast archive of early American self-fashioning.\n\nWhile his early education remains obscure to history (although Phillips is often considered a self-taught artist, he may have apprenticed with another artist) it's clear that Phillips made up his mind to pursue a career as an artist while still young. He enters the documentary record as an artist in 1809, at the age of 21, with advertisements in both \"The Berkshire Reporter\" and a Pittsfield, Massachusetts tavern proclaiming his talent for painting \"correct likenesses,\" distinguished by “perfect shadows and elegantly dressed in the prevailing fashions of the day.” Although Phillips also advertised his talent for \"fancy painting, silhouettes, sign and ornamental painting,\" he soon specialized as a portraitist. His work satisfied the local standard, and within two years Phillips was receiving regular portrait commissions from community leaders in this area of western Massachusetts.\n\nUnlike Phillips' illustrious predecessors in American art, such as Benjamin West of Philadelphia and John Singleton Copley of Boston, Phillips lived and worked on the rural frontier—a difference which is key to understanding his career. Though he was able to successfully market his skills from a young age, it's likely that the relatively sparse demand for painted portraits (a luxury good that reflects and signals a certain social standing) outside the capitals was the main factor necessitating an itinerant career that saw the artist move regularly, family perhaps in tow, between western Massachusetts, Connecticut, and the Hudson River Valley. The artist moved on as he exhausted the demand of the local community for painted \"likenesses\". This wandering lifestyle is archetypically Romantic, rather contrasting with the bourgeois domesticity of his portraits, which are almost always set within interiors. A letter from the American artist John Vanderlyn to his nephew, John Vanderlyn, Jr., from Kingston, New York, dated September 9, 1825, stated, \"Were I to begin life again, I should not hesitate to follow this plan, that is, to paint portraits cheap and slight, for the mass of folks can't judge of the merits of a well finished picture, I am more and more persuaded of this. Indeed, moving about through the country as Phillips did and probably still does, must be an agreeable way of passing ones time. I saw four of his works at Jacobus Hardenburgh's the other day painted a year or two ago, which seemed to satisfy them.\"\n\nWe may contrast this somewhat supercilious opinion of Phillips' artistic worth with the conclusion of the twentieth-century art critic Hilton Kramer, who wrote in \"The New York Times\" in 1970, \"In the \"Plain and Fancy\" exhibition, for example, there are five portraits by the amazing Ammi Phillips (1788–1865), and at least two of them—the portraits of Mrs. Isaac Cox and of Deacon Benjamin Benedict (both about 1836)—are of superb quality. To the modern eye, the portrait of Mrs. Cox particularly speaks with a clarity, precision, and sympathy that places it considerably nearer to our own standards of artistic probity than anything to be found in the common run of 'serious' painting at the time. If this is 'innocent' painting, it is innocent only of those flatulent academic pretensions which remained the curse of so much of our art in the 19th century.\"\nPhillips may actually have learned some of his skills from the portraits by John Vanderlyn he saw hanging in the homes of his wealthy patrons. Some aspects of Phillips' works are reminiscent of Vanderlyn's.\n\nAmmi Phillips lived into the era of the daguerreotype, and his last portraits show this influence He died on July 15, 1865, age 72, in Curtisville, Massachusetts, just outside Stockbridge, where his death certificate is filed in the Town Hall. He was buried in Amenia, New York, where he had lived earlier in his life.\n\nThe artist's most famous work is \"Girl in Red Dress with Cat and Dog\", which is in the collection of the American Folk Art Museum in New York. The painting is one of a group of four portraits of children in vibrant red with a dog on the floor that Phillips produced while living in Dutchess County, New York, in the mid-1830s. This iconic work is the only one that features a cat.\n\nThe image is frequently reproduced and admired. It was featured on a United States postage stamp in 1998. Nicholas B.A. Nicholson wrote a novel told from the perspective of the depicted girl.\n\nKen Johnson, an art critic for \"The New York Times\", has repeatedly praised the picture. In a review of the American Folk Art Museum's exhibition \"Self-Taught Genius\", Johnson contends that \"Girl in Red Dress with Cat and Dog\" is \"one of the most beautiful paintings made by any American artist ever.\" Previously he described the work as \"heartbreakingly lovely.\"\n\nThe novelist and art historian Teju Cole, in the third chapter of his debut novel \"Open City\", describes a visit to the American Folk Art Museum. The narrator notices and evaluates \"Girl in Red Dress with Cat and Dog\": \"At the landing of the first flight of stairs, I saw an oil portrait of a young girl in a starchy red dress holding a white cat. A dog peeked out from under her chair. The details were saccharine, but they could not obscure the force and beauty of the painting.\"\n\nPhillips' modern rediscovery began in 1924, when a group of portraits of women, shown leaning forward in three-quarter view and wearing dark dresses, were displayed in an antique show in Kent, Connecticut. The anonymous painter of these strongly colored works, which dated from the 1830s, became known as the \"Kent Limner\", after the locality where they had come to light.\n\nStylistically distinct from those of the \"Kent Limner\", a second group of early-19th-century paintings emerged after 1940 in the area near the Connecticut–New York border. Attributed at the time to an unknown \"Border Limner\", these works, dating from the period 1812–1819, were characterized by soft pastel hues and limited drawing skills, as seen in the portraits of \"Mrs. Russell Dorr and Baby\", now in the Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Folk Art Collection, Williamsburg, Virginia, and of \"Harriet Leavens\", now in the Fogg Art Museum, Harvard University.\n\nIt was not until 1958 that Ammi Phillips' identity as the painter of both groups of portraits was established by Barbara and Larry Holdridge, and endorsed by Mary Black, writing on May 21, 1959 to three fellow folk-art historians, \"You are the ones who should be the first to know that I have joined the opposition [i.e., the Holdridges] and now believe that the Border Limner, Ammi Phillips, A. Phillips, and the Kent Limner are one and the same person.\" Additional works were identified, showing the artist's transition from the delicate coloration of the Border period to the bold and dramatic works that followed. Some paintings that had previously been attributed to John Bradley were also identified as the work of Ammi Phillips. By 1976, there were approximately 400 paintings securely attributed to Phillips, who is now recognized as one of the most prolific American folk painters of his time. Scores more have been discovered since then.\n\nThe art historian Mary Black said Phillips' early and late styles reveal the untrained artist's inventiveness in dealing with the difficulty of representing the figure: \"In his Border period he made his limitations work for him and the lumpy coats, gangling limbs, huge hands, wooden arms—even the tables tilted at crazy angles—were all part of well-composed and beautiful portraits. Later he glossed over problems with anatomy by using flat dark-colored backgrounds and dark dresses and suits\". Phillips' work influenced the style of his younger contemporary, Erastus Salisbury Field, who worked as an itinerant portrait painter in the region just east of Phillips.\n\nThe Museum of American Folk Art showed its first major exhibition devoted to the work of a single folk portraitist to \"Ammi Phillips, Portrait Painter 1788–1865,\" on exhibit from October 16 to December 2, 1968. There have been numerous notable exhibits since then.\n\n\n", "id": "7737773", "categories": ["Folk artists", "1788 births", "American male painters", "People from Colebrook, Connecticut", "Painters from Connecticut", "1865 deaths", "American portrait painters", "19th-century American painters"], "title": "Ammi Phillips"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737784", "text": "De Anza League\n\nThe De Anza League is a California High School sports league in San Bernardino County, California and Riverside County, California. It is part of the CIF Southern Section.\n\nThe seven teams in the league are:\n\n", "id": "7737784", "categories": ["Twentynine Palms, California", "Sports in San Bernardino County, California", "California high school athletic leagues"], "title": "De Anza League"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737788", "text": "Gerald Davis (philatelist)\n\nGerald Davis (10 October 1916 – 16 June 2005): architect, graphic designer, postal historian and philatelist. His 1971 \"Burma Postal History\" is a classic study, both readable and comprehensive.\n\nDavis learned the basics of stamps and philately while helping out with his father's stamp shop in Baker Street, Marylebone, Westminster. As an adult he formed an extraordinary collection of the postal history of Burma, including the Japanese post offices in Burma and the overland routes to China and Thailand.\n\nAfter Dunkirk Davis went to India with the British Fourteenth Army, a multinational force comprising units from Commonwealth countries during World War II. After the Battle of Imphal he served in Burma, present-day Myanmar, where he took part in the Chindwin River valley campaign and the surrender of Rangoon in May, 1945.\n\nIn 1990, Robson Lowe commented, \"Besides acquiring much of his modern collection from villagers who preferred cigarettes to British currency, his negotiations after the formal enemy capitulation in August, with Burmese postal officials, for stamps which have since become collectible, by his own account comprised his most active service.\" \n\nUsing the first-hand knowledge of the country gained from his military assignments, and building on foundations laid by W. Renouf, Jal Cooper and Vernon Rowe, Gerald Davis' studies and presentations of Burma's postal history brought the country to its present-day attraction for collectors and philatelists. Davis was a fellow and member of the Society of Postal Historians, the India Study Circle and Kingston Philatelic Society.\n\n\n", "id": "7737788", "categories": ["1916 births", "2005 deaths", "Fellows of the Royal Philatelic Society London", "British Army personnel of World War II", "British philatelists", "People from Marylebone"], "title": "Gerald Davis (philatelist)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737790", "text": "IROC I\n\nThe inaugural International Race of Champions was held at two tracks over two weekends in 1973 and 1974. The first three races were held October 27 and 28 at Riverside International Raceway and the final race was held on the Daytona International Speedway road course on February 14, 1974. Champion Mark Donohue won $54000 for his efforts and the championship was determined by prize money rather than points. The races were contested in Porsche Carrera RSR race cars. This was the only IROC to be contested entirely on road courses. Only the top 6 finishing drivers competed in all four races.\n\nThe roster of drivers and final points standings were as follows:\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7737790", "categories": ["International Race of Champions", "1974 in American motorsport"], "title": "IROC I"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737792", "text": "VIVmag\n\nVIVmag is one of the earliest exclusively digital, interactive women's lifestyle magazines. Launched in 2006 and backed by Canadian industrialist David Harrison Gilmour (the founder of FIJI Water LLC), the bimonthly magazine is distributed by Zinio Systems, Inc. The first issue appeared in January-February 2007. There is no print version. The paperless title can be viewed in most browsers or downloaded to your computer and read via the Zinio Reader. The magazine is based in Thousand Oaks, California.\n\nEditor in chief Anne M. Russell is the former editor of \"Shape\" magazine and, like \"Shape\", \"VIVmag\" offers service journalism in areas of fashion, beauty and nutrition, in addition to overall fitness and health. \"VIVmag\", however, targets a slightly older (35+), more upscale demographic.\nThe magazine had a robust staff of affluent women from advertising and media at its state-side helm, Jeanniey Mullen was its CMO, Adrienne A.Wallace formerly of Time Warner and EMI was the Global Vice President of Marketing, and Jocelyn R. Taylor, formerly of UPTOWN Magazine was its Publisher.\n\n", "id": "7737792", "categories": ["American women's magazines", "Magazines established in 2006", "American online magazines", "Media in Thousand Oaks, California", "Magazines published in California", "American bimonthly magazines"], "title": "VIVmag"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737804", "text": "Jerome Kagan\n\nJerome Kagan (born February 25, 1929) is an American psychologist, and Daniel and Amy Starch Research Professor of Psychology, Emeritus at Harvard University, and co-faculty at the New England Complex Systems Institute. He is one of the key pioneers of developmental psychology.\n\nKagan has shown that an infant's \"temperament\" is quite stable over time, in that certain behaviors in infancy are predictive of certain other behavior patterns in adolescence. He did extensive work on temperament and gave insight on emotion. Kagan was listed as the 22nd most eminent psychologist of the 20th century, just above Carl Jung.\n\nBorn in Newark, New Jersey to Joseph and Myrtle Kagan, Kagan grew up in Rahway, New Jersey. He chose to study psychology due to his attraction in being a scientist and to preserve his grandfather's interest in human nature. He was accepted at Yale University to study Psychology, where he earned his Ph.D. and he earned his master's degree from Harvard University. He earned a B.S. Degree from Rutgers University in 1950. While at Yale University, he assisted Frank Beach, a well respected researcher.\n\nAfter he graduated from Yale University, he accepted his first faculty position at Ohio State University. Six months later, in 1955 he was recruited to be a part of the research team at the U.S. Army Hospital during the Korean War.\nOnce he had finished his time at the U.S. Army Hospital, the director of the Fels Research Institute contacted Kagan to ask him to direct a project that was funded by the National Institutes of Health, which he accepted. After that project was completed, he accepted the offer he received from Harvard University to be involved in creating the first Human Development program. Once he moved to Harvard, he remained there until retirement, with the exception of a leave to go and study children in San Marcos. He did this for a year, from 1971 to 1972, and then returned to Harvard as a professor.\n\nKagan won the Hofheimer Prize of the American Psychiatric Association in 1963. In 1995, he won the G. Stanley Hall Award of the American Psychological Association (APA).\n\nWhile at Fels, Kagan did extensive research on personality traits beginning with infancy and continued through adulthood. He looked at whether or not early experiences affected the participants' future personalities, talents and characters. Kagan read up on all of the longitudinal information that was prepared, specifically, the responses to intelligence tests that were administered to them. When Kagan was reviewing the material collected in childhood and adulthood, he found that the first three years in childhood showed little relation to the data collected in adulthood. The results of the Fels study was discussed in Kagan's book, Birth to Maturity, in 1962.\n\nKagan's next research was in San Marcos, Guatemala. During this time, Kagan discovered that biological factors play a huge role in development and an even larger part in child development. Specifically, he found that these children had slower Psychological development when in their homes due to their restricted experiences. Once the children were walking and could leave the home, Kagan found that the psychological delay in development was only temporary, and that cognitive growth is malleable. In 2010, Kagan was involved in a similar study that focused on specific parts of the brain involved in behavioral inhibition in infants. Schwartz et al. (2010) performed a longitudinal study involving 18-year-olds and used neuroimaging to detect whether or not the ventromedial or orbitofrontal cerebral cortex are associated with the high/low reactivity of their 4-month-old selves. After undergoing a battery of tests, the infants were later categorized into two groups: low-reactive and high-reactive temperament. Results showed that the adults who had low-reactive infant temperaments had greater thickness in the left orbitofrontal cortex than the high-reactive group. The adults categorized as high-reactive infants displayed greater thickness in the right ventromedial prefrontal cortex.\n\nWhile at Harvard University, Kagan studied infants up to two years and published his work in his book, The Second Year. Kagan's research found that there were major changes in Psychological functioning between 19 and 24 months, and that one-year-old children were sensitive to events that deviated from their normal experiences. Kagan also looked at the effects of infant daycare in response to Congress' proposal to fund federal day care centers for working mothers. Richard Kearsley, Philip Zelazo and Kagan created their own daycare in Boston's Chinatown, and compared these infants to infants who stayed at home with their mothers. This research revealed very little difference between the infants in day care and those whose mothers stayed at home with them with respect to cognitive functioning, language, attachment, separation protest, and play tempo\n\nKagan proposed that emotion is a psychological phenomenon controlled by brain states and that specific emotions are products of context, the person's history, and biological make-up. Kagan also explained emotion as occurring in four distinct phases, including the brain state (created by an incentive), the detection of changes in bodily movement, the appraisal of a change in bodily feeling, and the observable changes in facial expression and muscle tension. These emotions vary in magnitude and usually differ across ages and when expressed in different contexts.\nKagan questioned relying on individual's verbal statements of their feelings. He provided several reasons for this; he argued that the English language does not have enough words to describe all emotional states, the words to explain emotional states do not convey the differences in quality or severity, and translating emotion words from one language to another produces variations and inaccuracies. In addition, Kagan argued that research in emotion studies should be free of ambiguous and coded terms, and this emphasis on specificity remains a recurring theme in his current research on emotion. He called for a moratorium on the use of single words (e.g. fear) to write about emotional process, urging experts to instead use full sentences.\n\nAccording to Kagan, (conventionally):\n\nTemperament is perhaps what Kagan is best known for. He began his work on temperament after his research in Guatemala. Kagan primarily focused on children's fear and apprehension. He defined two types of temperament; inhibited and uninhibited. Inhibited refers to a shy, timid, and fearful profile of a child, whereas uninhibited refers to the appearance of bold, sociable and outgoing behaviours. Kagan found that at four months, inhibited infants tend to fuss and show heightened responses to novel objects (e.g. brightly colored toy) and display intense physiological arousal to situations that barely attract uninhibited infants. In Kagan's first published work on behaviourally inhibited children, he established the connection between his work on behavioural inhibition to the works of neuroscientists like Joseph LeDoux and Michael Davis.\n\nIn 2008, Kagan and several other researchers conducted a study to examine if behavioral inhibition in adulthood can be predicted by certain behavioral characteristics in infants. The research hypothesized that the frequency of infant reactivity based on motor and crying dimensions is predictive of behavioral inhibition. As a result of his ground breaking work on temperament, we know that these characteristics have the ability to influence later behavior depending on how they interact with the environment. Kagan also believed that there is no guarantee of an indefinitely stable profile considering environmental factors are always changing and that both genes and environmental factors influence a child's temperament \n\nHe is the author of:\n\n\nSome of the books Kagan has written or co-written include:\n\n\n\n", "id": "7737804", "categories": ["21st-century psychologists", "Developmental psychologists", "20th-century psychologists", "Ohio State University faculty", "Harvard University faculty", "Jewish American social scientists", "Living people", "1929 births", "Yale University alumni", "American psychologists", "Rutgers University alumni", "Harvard University alumni"], "title": "Jerome Kagan"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737811", "text": "Lebowakgomo\n\nLebowakgomo is the seat of the Lepelle-Nkumpi Local Municipality and was the capital of the former Bantustan of Lebowa. Lebowakgomo lies 45 km southeast of the Limpopo capital of Polokwane. The inhabitants speak SePedi as the first home language. \n\nThe township was established in the early 1970s to become the capital of Lebowa, and was enlarged and developed in the 1980s. The name is derived from two Northern Sotho words \"Lebowa\" (\"north\") and \"Kgomo\" (\"cow\"). The land where Lebowakgomo is located was donated to the former Lebowa Government by Chief Mmutle Mphahlele of the \"Bakgaga ba gaMphahlele\". The chief's palace lies 10 km southeast of the township in Seleteng village.\n\nLebowakgomo was one of the eight townships in the former Bantustan, the seven others being Mahwelereng, Sešego, Mankweng, Lenyenye, Namakgale, Praktiseer, Mašišing and Senwabarwana. Lebowakgomo is also the birthplace of the Great Kamza Mbathero.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Lebowakgomo had three primary schools in Zone A (Little Bedfordview, Mogodumo and Ntseekgopu), in Zone F (Dr Dixon Mphahlele) and in Zone B (Eureka), and three high schools: Derek Kobe High School, Lebowakgomo High School, SJ van der Merwe and towards the late 90s Lebowakgomo Commercial, and Mathomomayo High School. Before 2005 two more primary and secondary schools were built in Zone A and Zone S\n\nNotable people from Mphahlele and Lebowakgomo include: \n\nLebowakgomo has founded three major shopping centres just near Zone B and Zone F. Mall@Lebo was constructed between the year 2013 and 2014 where it first opened its doors on April 2014 and houses over 60 retail stores and major stores. Metropolitan Life Plaza and Mapudi Phasha Shopping complex have both been in existence years prior to the construction of the new mall. \n\nGreater Lebowakgomo Community Radio (GLFM) is the only local radio station broadcasting at 89.8 FM. The radio station targets the communities within its frequency reach and the youth with content such as news, sports, talk and music.\n\nThe township of Lebowakgomo is surrounded by small to medium-sized villages that in each with their own characteristics contribute the vast majority of day dwellers in its business district. These villages include, Makotse, Ga-Ledwaba home of the Traditional Authority of Ga-Ledwaba, Ga-Rakgoatha home to singer and songwriter Steve Kekana, Ga-Mphahlele, Sepanapudi, Ga Masemola and Zebediela home to the Zebediala Citrus Farm which in its prime prior to land redistribution exported citrus to international and local markets and its oranges were famous among locals. Just 13km out of Lebowakgomo lies the Zion Christian Church former headquarters Podingwane from 1937 to 1942 before moving to Moria.\n\nThabamoopo Hospital is a Psychiatric hospital located in Lebowakgomo Zone A just a few kilometres from Lebowakgomo Hospital, both institutions are public hospitals and offer free services to those that are legible for free services and charge government hospital rates to other citizens. There are other public health facilities and clinics in Lebowakgomo Zone B and Lebowakgomo Zone R. The township has always been dominated by public health facilities and a handful of private health facilities. Over the years there has been a rise in General Practitioners, Psychologists and Gynaecologist all working privately and in recent years there has been a construction of a private hospital (Medleb), however the hospital is currently in its construction phase and not yet operational.\n\nLebowakgomo Stadium is a multi use municipal facility which is mostly used to host private functions and recreational events like the annual AKasiDream event hosted every Easter to bring the youth together and a family fun day hosted every spring filled of fun and games for family and children. This multi use facility is capable to administer sporting events such as Soccer, Tennis, Netball, BasketBall and Baseball.\nTennis is very popular with the people of Lebowakgomo. The success of tennis is due to the collective effort of community members who, through their own interest in the sport, taught themselves and then others to play. Tennis has paved a career pathway for many junior players in sports.\n", "id": "7737811", "categories": [], "title": "Lebowakgomo"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737831", "text": "WebCT Vista\n\nWebCT Vista is a teaching and learning enterprise software run and developed by Blackboard Inc. It is principally used by universities and other education institutions as classroom management software, and as a distance education service. \n\nDepending on the use of it by the lecturer, WebCT Vista can include class notes, audio streaming of the classes, quizzes and forums.\n\n\n", "id": "7737831", "categories": ["Virtual learning environments"], "title": "WebCT Vista"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737854", "text": "Fiorentini\n\nEngineer Filippo Fiorentini founded the Fiorentini & C. S.p.A. factory of excavators in 1919 in Rome, Italy. He imported and distributed construction equipment. During the time of Fascism, restrictions banned import and Ing. Fiorentini started his manufacturing plant in Via Tiburtina near Stazione Tiburtina (San Lorenzo, in Roma) for the construction of excavators such as scrapers/draglines and cranes under the license of an American company named Bucyrus.\n\nThe first excavators (models FB35 and FB38) were entirely built on site from 1930 to 1940. Around the 1930s, Fiorentini also opened a factory in Fabriano.\n\nFiorentini machines assisted all major Italian public works from 1930s . New models were scheduled to be produced but were delayed by World War II. During the war, in 1943, 117 workers died in the factory attacked by bombs dropped by the American military (Grassi, 2012). Eng. Filippo Fiorentini and his wife died shortly after of broken heart. Their only son, Giuseppe, also an Engineer, had the courage to start a new business activity, and in 1951 he was so successful that he was ranked at the top of Rome tax payers. The Ing.F.Fiorentini & C. S.P.A. relocated further along the Tiburtina road, to a bigger plant, more modern and very effective. After World War II, the company produced FB50, 60, 100 and the massive FB200 that could hold 1000 tons. In the 1960s, there were some design changes. The company also produced bulldozers and hydraulic excavators. \nBy studying Russian, Ing. Giuseppe travelled to the Soviet Union and sold two big contracts with their ministry Machino Import, of some 1000 cranes to be used in the enormous project of the Transiberian Pipeline.\n\nAt that time the Company had won a technical and commercial battle against other companies from Germany much bigger ones than the Ing. F.Fiorentini & C. of Rome. As the sales were strong, both inside Italy for the reconstruction, and in Russia, the Company hired as many as 1000 employees, who were working in three plants (Rome, Fabriano, in Italy) and Toronto, Ontario, Canada.\n\nIn 1956 Count Giuseppe Fiorentini bought a second castle after the San Gallo castle in Nettuno, from prince Barberini, the farm estate and castle of San fabiano. A hunting resort, San Fabiano was useful for its public relations, where he invited many of his clients, such as the Russian Ambassador Rijov, and Mac Cormick of International Harvester. In fact the Company was designing and manufacturing cranes, excavators and crushing plants and represented for Italy the industrial line of H.I.\n\nBut in the sixties, things started to decline economically.\nAfter a major setback in his industry in Rome, he took advantage of a national reform, that abruptly stopped the centennial rules of MEZZADRIA, where the Landlord was the owner of everything and the contadini the farmers were living in the farmhouses with the cows, and they were not paying a rent, but the output of their work would be split 50/50 with the Landlord.\n\nIn 1975, engineer Giuseppe Fiorentini, the son of the company's founder, filed for bankruptcy and the company was obtained at no cost by another Italian company named Gepi. Gepi then changed its name to Nuova Fiorentini, meaning \"New Fiorentini\".\n\nGrassi, L. (2012). \"Bunker di Roma, Guida ai Rifugi Anti-aerei.\" Sotterranei di Roma, Roma, IT.\n", "id": "7737854", "categories": [], "title": "Fiorentini"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737864", "text": "Phi Delta Kappa\n\nPhi Delta Kappa International (also known as PDK or PDK International) is a US professional organization for educators. Its main office is in Arlington, Virginia. It was founded on January 24, 1906.\n\nCurrently, membership consists of educators and others interested in education. Members are affiliated through one of several hundred chapters or directly to the international organization.\n\nPDK is governed by an International Board, who are elected by professional PDK members. The association abides by the Constitution and Bylaws of PDK International.\n\nPhi Delta Kappa began at Indiana University on January 24, 1906 in the formal creation of a chapter under the name Pi Kappa Mu. By 1910, the organization had a total of three chapters. On March 1, 1910, Pi Kappa Mu, Phi Delta Kappa (which had been organized at Columbia University on March 13, 1908) and Nu Rho Beta (which had been organized at University of Missouri on February 23, 1909) amalgamated under the name Phi Delta Kappa. Prior to amalgamation, Phi Delta Kappa had also branched out to include two other chapters.\n\nPhi Delta Kappa was limited to white males at the August 1915 convention. In 1940, Sigma chapter at Ohio State University initiated two non-whites (one Chinese, one Negro) , and was suspended at the December 1941 convention with charter revocation to occur in May 1942 if the chapter did not remove membership for the two non-whites. A demand for a popular vote of the entire membership let to a membership poll being sent to all members and eventually the deletion of the \"white clause\" by the membership. On June 2, 1942 announcement was made to all of the chapters of the removal of the race restriction.\n\nPhi Delta Kappa joined the Professional Interfraternity Conference in 1928.\n\n\"Phi Delta Kappan\" is a professional journal for education, published by Phi Delta Kappa International, since 1915.\n\n", "id": "7737864", "categories": ["Educational organizations based in the United States", "1906 establishments in Indiana", "Student organizations established in 1906"], "title": "Phi Delta Kappa"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737873", "text": "Sombhu Mitra\n\nSombhu Mitra (22 August 1915 – 19 May 1997) was an Indian film and stage actor, director, playwright, reciter and an Indian theatre personality, known especially for his involvement in Bengali theatre, where he is considered a pioneer. He remained associated with the Indian People's Theatre Association (IPTA) for a few years before founding the \"Bohurupee\" theatre group in Kolkata in 1948. He is most noted for films like \"Dharti Ke Lal\" (1946), \"Jagte Raho\" (1956), and his production of \"Rakta Karabi\" based on Rabindranath Tagore's play in 1954 and \"Chand Baniker Pala\", his most noted play as a playwright.\n\nIn 1966, the Sangeet Natak Akademi awarded him with its highest award, the Sangeet Natak Akademi Fellowship for lifetime contribution, then in 1970, he was awarded the Padma Bhushan, India's third highest civilian honour, and in 1976 the Ramon Magsaysay Award.\n\nBorn in Calcutta (now Kolkata), India, on 22 August 1915, Sombhu Mitra was the sixth child of three sons and four daughters born of Sarat Kumar Mitra, an employee of the Geological Survey of India, and Satadalbasini Mitra. His mother died when he was 12 years old.\n\nHe started his schooling in Chakraberia Middle English School, Calcutta and later continued in the Ballygunge Government High School, Calcutta, where he developed interest reading Bengali plays and became active in school dramatics. He joined St. Xavier's College at the University of Calcutta in 1931, and soon started attending the local theatre.\n\nHis first appearance in Bengali theatre was in Rangmahal Theatre in north Kolkata in 1939, thereafter he moved to the Minerva, Natyaniketan and Srirangam theatres.\n\nIn 1943, he joined Indian People's Theatre Association (IPTA). In 1944, several old theatrical conventions were broken when the play \"Nabanna\" written by Bijon Bhattacharya and co-directed by Sombhu Mitra for IPTA was staged. In 1948, Sombhu Mitra formed a new theatre group, Bohurupee in Kolkata, which ushered the group-theatre movement in West Bengal.\n\nHe married Tripti Mitra née Bhaduri, who was also a celebrated personality in the Bengali theatre. Their daughter, Shaoli is a noted actress, director and playwright.\n\nUnder Sombhu Mitra's direction, the Bohurupee staged several successful productions. In December 1950, the Bohurupee presented three plays in the New Empire theatre – Tulsi Lahiri's \"Pathik\" and \"Chenda Tar\" and Sombhu Mitra's own creation, \"Ulukhagra\". In 1954, Rabindranath Tagore's \"Rakta Karabi\" was staged by the Bohurupee, followed by his \"Bisarjan\", \"Raja\" and \"Char Adhyay\". Other notable productions include Bidhyak Bhattacharya's \"Tahar Namti Ranjana\" and \"Kanchanranga\". Under his direction, this group also presented the Bengali adaptations of several well-known dramas from the world stage. Henrik Ibsen's \"Putul Khela\" (Doll's House), \"Dashachakra\" (An Enemy of the People) and Sophocles' \"Raja Oidipaus\" (Oedipus Rex) are notable amongst them.\n\nHe has also acted in The Life of Galileo by Bertolt Brecht directed by Fritz Bennewitz in the title role.\n\nIn these productions he performed as \"Rahimuddin\" in \"Chenda Tar\", \"Atin\" in \"Char Adhyay\", \"Binod\" in \"Ulukhagra\", \"Tapan\" in \"Putul Khela\", \"Dr. Purnendu Guha\" in \"Dashachakra\", \"Oidipaus\" in \"Raja Oidipaus\".\n\nHe died in Kolkata.\n\nSombhu Mitra performed in several movies in Bengali and Hindi. The notable among them are:\n\nHe wrote the story and screenplay of \"Jagte Raho\" (1956) and also co-directed it along with Amit Maitra. He also directed a Bengali movie, \"Shubha Bibaha\" in 1959.\n\n\nSombhu Mitra received many national and international awards, which include the Crystal Globe for \"Jagte Raho\" at the 1957 Karlovy Vary International Film Festival, the \"Desikottama\" from Visva Bharati University in 1989, an honorary D. Litt from both Rabindra Bharati University and Jadavpur University in Kolkata, the Ramon Magsaysay Award in 1976 for journalism, literature and creative communication arts and the Padmabhushan in the same year. He received the Sangeet Natak Akademi Fellowship in 1966. For his contribution in the movies, he won the Grand-Prix Award at the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival. Madhya Pradesh Government honoured him with \"Kalidas Samman\" (1982–83).\n\n\n", "id": "7737873", "categories": ["Indian People's Theatre Association people", "Bengali people", "1997 deaths", "Bengali theatre personalities", "Bengali screenwriters", "Recipients of the Padma Bhushan in arts", "Indian theatre directors", "20th-century Indian film directors", "Male actors from Kolkata", "Film directors from Kolkata", "1915 births", "Screenwriters from Kolkata", "St. Xavier's College, Calcutta alumni", "20th-century Indian male actors", "Hindi-language film directors", "Male actors in Hindi cinema", "Ramon Magsaysay Award winners", "Male actors in Bengali cinema", "University of Calcutta alumni", "Indian male film actors", "Recipients of the Sangeet Natak Akademi Fellowship", "20th-century Indian dramatists and playwrights", "Indian male dramatists and playwrights"], "title": "Sombhu Mitra"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737880", "text": "Twister supersonic separator\n\nThe Twister supersonic separator is a compact tubular device which is used for removing water and/or hydrocarbon dewpointing of natural gas. The principle of operation is similar to the near isentropic Brayton cycle of a turboexpander. The gas is accelerated to supersonic velocities within the tube using a De Laval nozzle and inlet guide vanes spin the gas around an inner-body which creates the \"ballerina effect\" and centrifugally separates the water and liquids in the tube. Hydrates do not form in the Twister tube due to the very short residence time of the gas in the tube (around 2 milliseconds). A secondary separator treats the liquids and slip gas and also acts as a hydrate control vessel. Twister is able to dehydrate to typical pipeline dewpoint specifications and relies on a pressure drop from the inlet of about 25%, dependent on the performance required. The fundamental mathematics behind supersonic separation can be found in the Society of Petroleum Engineers paper (number 100442) entitled \"Selective Removal of Water from Supercritical Natural Gas\". The closed Twister system enables subsea gas treatment subsea .\n\nIt is a product of Twister BV, a Dutch firm affiliated with Royal Dutch Shell.\n\nUOP a Honeywell company invested in the company since 2011.\n\n", "id": "7737880", "categories": ["Natural gas"], "title": "Twister supersonic separator"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737900", "text": "Cedric Bozeman\n\nCedric Rudolph Bozeman (born March 7, 1983) is an American professional basketball player for Link Tochigi Brex of the B.League.\n\nBorn in Los Angeles, California, Bozeman attended Mater Dei High School in Santa Ana alongside Jamal Sampson and USC Heisman Trophy winner, Matt Leinart. He was a member of the high school's top-ranked Mater Dei Monarchs basketball team. Bozeman later played college basketball with the UCLA Bruins.\n\nDuring his Freshman year, he played In 26 games (21 starts). Was a Honorable-Mention Pac-10 All-Freshman Team Selection after averaging 3.5 assists per game (8th In Pac-10), At The Ucla Basketball Banquet Awards He Won The Seymour Armond Memorial Award As The Most Valuable Freshman. As A Junior, He Started All 28 Games, and Led The Pac-10 In assists per game (5.5) and assists (155), at the end of the year banquet, he was given the bruin hoopsters jd morgan memorial award for outstanding team play.\n\nBozeman was not drafted in the NBA, but found his way into the league through the Atlanta Hawks where he averaged 1.1 points in 23 games with five starts before being waived in January 2007. Soon thereafter he was quickly picked up by the Albuquerque Thunderbirds of the NBA D-League. Bozeman went overseas to play for the Belgium-based Telindus Oostende basketball club and averaged 4.6 points per game over ten games. The former Bruin went on to play another season in Europe, this time with the Polish Czarni Słupsk club during the 2007–08 season.\n\nIn 2010, he signed with Belgacom Liège in Belgium.\n\nFor the 2011-12 season, Bozeman joined the Reno Bighorns of the NBDL. At the end of December 2011, the Bighorns waived Bozeman due to injury. However, he later rejoined the team.\nIn 2012, he joined the Barangay Ginebra Kings of Philippine Basketball Association as their import for the Governors Cup. Later in 2012, he signed with the Westports Malaysia Dragons.\n\nFrom 2013 to 2015, Bozeman played with the Toshiba Brave Thunders Kanagawa of the Japanese NBL where he won a championship in the 2013–14 season.\n\n", "id": "7737900", "categories": ["Atlanta Hawks players", "Westports Malaysia Dragons players", "Beijing Ducks players", "Barangay Ginebra San Miguel players", "Philippine Basketball Association imports", "African-American basketball players", "Albuquerque Thunderbirds players", "Basketball players from California", "McDonald's High School All-Americans", "Small forwards", "American expatriate basketball people in the Philippines", "Living people", "American expatriate basketball people in China", "Shooting guards", "Fukushima Firebonds players", "American expatriate basketball people in Poland", "Anaheim Arsenal players", "BC Oostende players", "American expatriate basketball people in Belgium", "Basketball players at the 2006 NCAA Men's Division I Final Four", "American expatriate basketball people in Japan", "Kawasaki Brave Thunders players", "Reno Bighorns players", "Maine Red Claws players", "Link Tochigi Brex players", "Liège Basket players", "Undrafted National Basketball Association players", "Parade High School All-Americans (boys' basketball)", "1983 births", "UCLA Bruins men's basketball players"], "title": "Cedric Bozeman"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737901", "text": "Philippine television drama\n\nPhilippine television drama, also known as \"teleserye\", Filipino telenovelas or P-drama, is a form of melodramatic serialized fiction in television in the Philippines. Teleserye is derived from two Filipino words: \"tele\", which is short for \"\"telebisyón\"\" (television) and \"\"sérye\"\" (series).\n\nTeleseryes share some characteristics and have similar roots with classic soap operas and \"telenovelas\", yet the teleserye has evolved into a genre with its own unique characteristics, often working as a social realist reflection of Filipino reality. Teleseryes are aired in prime-time, afternoon, five days a week. They attract a broad audience crossing age and gender lines, and they command the highest advertising rates in the Philippine television industry. The series last anywhere from three months to a year, or even longer, depending on their rating.\n\nOther forms of Philippine dramas include \"serials\" and \"anthologies\", which are usually shown on a weekly basis. These dramas are also intended to air a finite number of episodes usually lasting one season depending on the ratings.\n\nSoap operas in the Philippines originated when \"Gulong ng Palad\" (Wheel of Fortune) was first heard on the radio in 1949. The genre then expanded into television in the early 1960s. The first Philippine TV soap opera was \"Hiwaga sa Bahay na Bato\" (The Magic Stone House) in 1963, and was produced by ABS-CBN. \"Larawan ng Pag-ibig\" (Picture of Love), \"Prinsipe Amante\" (Prince Amante), and many others soon followed.\n\nGulong ng Palad, co-written by revival writer Loida Virina, was the longest-running radio serial that spanned for two decades until the mid 80s. It was made into a television soap opera starring Marianne Dela Riva and Ronald Corveau, created stars out of many young actors like Romnick Sarmenta and starred veteran actress Caridad Sanchez whose popularity helped sustain the soap’s lifetime.\n\nDuring the martial law period in 1972 to 1986, the government closed several networks leaving RPN-9 and GMA as the only two commercial television networks in the country allowed to broadcast nationwide spurring a dramatic growth of teleseryes as a result of the fierce competition between the two networks.\n\nRPN-9 produced \"Flordeluna\", starring award-winning actress Janice de Belen. The cast also included \"Drama King\" Dindo Fernando and award-winning actress and director Laurice Guillen. At the same time, GMA produced the hit tale \"Anna Liza\" starring child actress and FAMAS awardee Julie Vega. This marked one of the biggest rivalries in Philippine showbiz history between Vega and de Belen (despite being highlighted as bestfriends offscreen). However, \"Anna Liza\" was cancelled in 1985 due to Julie Vega's death and as a result, the series had an unfinished storyline and a two-hour special in 1986, which was supposedly its final year on air. Both series were controversial from the start due to the rivalry between the fanbases of Vega and de Belen.\n\nUntil the late 1980s, Philippine television dramas were broadcast in afternoon timeblocks. ABS-CBN resumed operations after the expulsion of the Marcos dictatorship in 1986 and regained its lead among rival networks in audience ratings by the end of the decade. By the 1990s, a new wave of international television phenomenon swept the Philippines, starting with the 'teleserye craze' over ABS-CBN imported Mexican dramas. \n\nThe most popular were the \"Las Tres Marias\" Trilogy produced by the world-leading Televisa and starred by Thalía (starting with \"Maria Mercedes\" shown on ABS-CBN and \"Marimar\" and later, Maria La Del Barrio, shown on RPN-9, both as primetime shows). By this time, major networks began to reschedule locally made telenovelas, now called \"teleserye\", into primetime slots to encourage more Filipino audiences to watch at night and for advertisers to invest more on these shows. By the mid-1990s, teleseryes surpassed sitcoms (both in number of shows produced and in nationwide audience ratings) as the most dominant form of primetime television in the Philippines.\n\nThe 1990s television dramas boosted the careers of several actors and actresses who became household names in the Philippines during and after the end of their shows' original runs. \n\nA long-running dramas that stands out is ABS-CBN’s drama \"Mara Clara\", which run from 1992 to 1997, gaining nationwide popularity due to the intense rivalry between its two stars and characters: Judy Ann Santos as the protagonist Mara and Gladys Reyes as the evil antagonist Clara. The series became the longest-running post-Martial Law teleserye in Philippine television history, experiencing frequent timeslot changes before settling into the standard 7:00 P.M.-8:00 P.M. primetime block by late 1995. \"Mara Clara\" is also credited for being the country's first successful teleserye to spawn a similarly successful movie under the same name. Santos would continue her television success between 1997 and 1999 in the iconic drama series titled \"Esperanza\". A film was also made after this drama's finale in 1999. A 1997 \"Esperanza\" episode currently holds the record for the all-time highest rated single episode for any Philippine television series.\n\nThe teleserye \"Valiente\" ran from 1992 to 1997; its first 2 and a half years on ABS-CBN, and 2 years on GMA-7. \n\nJudy Ann Santos was touted the first \"Primetime Queen\" of Philippine television and earned the title \"Queen of Soap Operas\" for her roles in \"Mara Clara\" and \"Esperanza\". But in mid-1997, another series, \"Mula sa Puso\" (From The Heart), gave fame to the second \"Primetime Queen\", Claudine Barretto where she played the heiress Via in the 2-year-long soap, together with her leading men Rico Yan and Diether Ocampo, and Princess Punzalan as Selina, the most influential character of the series. Punzalan's antagonist performance was highly regarded among the best on Philippine television, setting standards for future Filipino telenovela villains. The intense rivalry between the characters of Punzalan and Jacklyn Jose (as Via's mother Magda) became an icon for most of the succeeding decades on Philippine television. Simultaneously running with \"Esperanza\", both programs pioneered crossover episodes among Philippine teleserye during the same period, and \"Mula sa Puso\" spawned another successful movie after its finale in 1999.\n\nMeanwhile, rival network's GMA retained and even popularized their afternoon serialized dramas form such as \"Villa Quintana\" with lead stars Donna Cruz as Lynette Quintana and Keempee de Leon as Isagani Samonte with Isabel Rivas as Stella Quintana which airs from 1995 to 1997. This was followed by \"Ikaw Na Sana\" with lead characters Angelu de Leon as Blanca Rosales Perez / Susan Saavedra and Bobby Andrews as Rafael Huico with Gladys Reyes as Angela Rosales which airs between 1997 and 1998, and a film was made after this show. \n\nAt the peak of both these GMA afternoon shows' fame, they were moved to primetime slots by the end of the 1990s to compete with ABS-CBN's rise on national television with their primetime serials, a foreshadow of what would eventually be the touted primetime television series blocks for both rival networks.\n\nModern Philippine television dramas have begun to evolve to today's modern form called \"teleserye\", a portmanteau of the Filipino words \"telebisyon\" (\"television\") and \"serye\" (\"series\"). The term originated from the ABS-CBN hit drama \"Pangako Sa 'Yo\", airing from 2000 to 2002 and starring Jericho Rosales and Kristine Hermosa, and the iconic rivalry between actresses Eula Valdez as the original Amor de Jesus-Powers and Jean Garcia as the original Claudia Buenavista. The tandem of Valdez and Garcia in the original \"Pangako Sa'Yo\" is widely regarded as the most successful rivalry of main characters in all of Philippine television, setting the standards for future teleserye ensemble casts. \n\n\"Pangako Sa'Yo\" is dubbed as the country's first ever teleserye and was considered one of the most significant turning points in Philippine television history due to its pioneering cinematic production and modified fast-paced, multiple-arc story structure distinguishing it from previous Filipino telenovelas. It was broadcast internationally in many networks across the Americas, Africa and Asia, and remains the most successful Philippine television series internationally. At the end of its run in 2002, \"Pangako Sa 'Yo\" remains as the record-holder of the all-time highest rated series finale episode for any locally made program in Philippine television history, and firmly established the current primetime block of ABS-CBN.\n\n\"Pangako Sa 'Yo\" effectively became the highest rated teleserye by average, both domestically and internationally, in all of Philippine television history, and inspired ABS-CBN to produce (in mid-2002) its leadout teleserye, \"Kay Tagal Kang Hinintay\". Already concluded in 2003, the show introduced the highly acclaimed tandem of John Lloyd Cruz and Bea Alonzo as one of the country's most successful long-established television and film loveteams until today. Also known for the iconic performance of Lorna Tolentino as the protagonist twins Lorrea and Lorrinda Guinto, it became the nation's first ever local television series to become a finalist to the Best Drama Series category of the International Emmy Awards in 2003, marking the rise of the Philippines on the world television programming stage.\n\nRosales and Hermosa, along with Diether Ocampo and Angelika dela Cruz, would altogether star in another teleserye classic, \"Sana'y Wala Nang Wakas\". Airing between 2003 and 2004, \"Sana'y Wala Nang Wakas\" became the world's first ever drama series allowing its viewers to choose the story's ending through text messaging. Another groundbreaking teleserye of ABS-CBN was \"Basta't Kasama Kita\", airing around the same period as of \"Sana'y Wala Nang Wakas\". Starring Judy Ann Santos and Robin Padilla, the show was notable for its depiction of the country's National Bureau of Investigation and for being the country's first ever local television series to broadcast a live series finale episode in 2004. This introduced the live format of series finales among fictional series on Philippine television - a feat only few teleseryes had accomplished until today. Both series followed \"Pangako Sa'Yo\" to be broadcast abroad, marking the rise of Philippines to international prominence in television drama production.\n\nABS-CBN's fortunes would soon increase with its 1999-2001 series \"Saan Ka Man Naroroon\" starring Claudine Barretto on lead role as triplets Rosemarie, Rosenda and Rosario. The show was critically acclaimed and became one of the few groundbreaking shows of the 2000s in the Philippines starring a female lead character, as well as the country's first teleserye with at least two characters portrayed simultaneously by one actor. \n\nBarretto would consequently gain prominence for her lead role on \"Sa Dulo Ng Walang Hanggan\" a timeless love story of the undying love of Angeline Crisostomo/Angelina whose mistakes that appear in the present had also happened in the past; it uncovered the lies and the love of all around her which was actually reincarnated into the present. She was also the lead star of the popular teleserye \"Marina\". Airing in 2004, the show popularized the fantasy theme throughout most of the incoming teleseryes in the Philippines, becoming the first original fantasy series made for television to score success on Philippine primetime television ratings. \n\nThe Philippines began emerging as one of the world's largest television drama-producing nations in the mid-2000s. Several of its international hits include the 2006 remake of \"Gulong ng Palad\" on ABS-CBN, with its cast including Kristine Hermosa as Luisa, TJ Trinidad as Carding and Cherie Gil as Philiomena \"Menang\" Medel, the corrupt town mayor and also the main antagonist of the series. The role of Mimi was given to Andrea del Rosario and Rio Locsin as Caridad \"Idad\" Santos. The series was popular amongst international viewers, through TFC. In 2007, the remake of \"Maria Flordeluna\", which previously aired on RPN-9 through most of the 1970s and 1980s, starred young actress Eliza Pineda as the titular character. It also starred Albert Martinez as Leo Alicante, Eula Valdez as Mary Jo Esperitu and John Estrada as Gary Alvarado. The series ran on ABS-CBN for 93 episodes and won the PMPC Star Awards Best Television Series in 2008, and popularized the trend of remaking classic child-starred Philippine telenovelas of the past.\n\nTo pit against its rival network, GMA Network started producing their own set of primetime soap opera starting with the top-rating drama series, \"Ikaw Lang Ang Mamahalin\" starring drama actress Angelika dela Cruz which aired from 2001 to 2002 and \"Sana Ay Ikaw Na Nga\" starring Dingdong Dantes. It was successfully shown in Malaysia and other Asian countries. Another was the political drama, \"Kung Mawawala Ka\" also became one of the most loved powerful dramas which revolved on politics and even on issues of corruption. Starring Eddie Garcia as the show's main character (and lead antagonist), it also showed the dramatic abilities of actresses Hilda Koronel, Liza Lorena and Gloria Diaz as the powerful wives. The series ran between 2001 and 2002 and also won a PMPC Award from the Philippine Movie Press Club. It was also the most popular GMA-made drama (as well as the most successful single telenovela) pitted against the ongoing television drama \"Pangako Sa 'Yo\" which also reached its end in 2002. \n\nIt was not until 2004, however, when GMA Network overtook ABS-CBN in the national ratings when the former introduced an all-fantaserye (a portmanteau of \"fantasy\" and teleserye, i.e. fantasy-themed teleseryes) primetime slate by 2005, through the successful broadcasts of female-lead shows such as \"Encantadia\", which originally starred Iza Calzado, Karylle, Sunshine Dizon and Diana Zubiri, and \"Mulawin\", starring the successful tandem of Angel Locsin and Richard Gutierrez. GMA earned ratings foothold against its main rival ABS-CBN during this time when it brought life to \"Darna\", a role reprised by the most famous Darna of all time, Vilma Santos (in the late 1970s and early 1980s), and starring Angel Locsin in its first television remake, and ushered the era of film-turned-TV remakes on Philippine television.\n\nProminent film-turned-TV remakes in the Philippines in the 2000s include \"Panday\" which starred Jericho Rosales and Heart Evangelista, and the remake of \"Mga Anghel na Walang Langit\" and \"Kampanerang Kuba\" which starred Anne Curtis, all made by ABS-CBN. The \"\"sineserye\"\" genre was introduced on Philippine television in this decade through \"Bituing Walang Ningning\" which starred Sarah Geronimo and Angelika de la Cruz, reprising the iconic roles of Sharon Cuneta and Cherie Gil won prominence and also produced a concert. It also came to be known as having \"The Grand Finale\" as this introduced the format of series finale stretched to 5 days on the final week on Philippine television. \"Bituing Walang Ningning\" remains the all-time highest rated regular musical television drama series in the Philippines.\n\nBy the late 2000s, GMA-7 and ABS-CBN would soon embark on one of the country's most heated rivalries for the most watched television network. GMA aired its 2007 remake of the international telenovela \"MariMar\" which starred Marian Rivera and Dingdong Dantes (then remade in 2015 for a second time with the same title starring Megan Young and Tom Rodriguez). The remake, highlighted as one of the world's most successful international remakes of any former Latinovela, boosted GMA's short-term dominance as the most watched television network in the country during the year. Meanwhile, during the second half of 2000s, three ABS-CBN-made TV series became viral: the remake of the 1977–1985 soap opera \"Gulong ng Palad\", the teleserye \"Sa Piling Mo\" and the series \"Maging Sino Ka Man\". The latter became the most popular teleserye internationally after \"Pangako Sa'Yo\" and boosted the careers of John Lloyd Cruz, Bea Alonzo, Sam Milby and Anne Curtis.\n\nOn the year 2008, ABS-CBN produced its most expensive series \"Lobo\", about two opposing groups in the story—the Luna and the Waya. The show starred Piolo Pascual and Angel Locsin, in the latter's first major project on ABS-CBN after transferring from GMA Network in one of Philippine television's most controversial network switches by any actor to date. Locsin's performance was the first from any Filipino to be nominated to the International Emmys for a leading role. The members of the Luna organization have a grudge against the werewolves while the Waya are the protectors of the Lobo (the werewolves), and they want them to co-exist harmoniously with normal humans. \n\nThe year 2008 also marked the international success of the Philippine remake of the world-hit Colombian original telenovela \"Yo soy Betty, la fea\". Starring Bea Alonzo, it became the most successful Philippine remake of any Latinovela since the 2007 Marimar remake starring Marian Rivera on GMA Network. Alonzo's portrayal gained widespread prominence through most of Asia on her titular character, and was vital in ABS-CBN's defeat of GMA as the country's most watched television network at the end of the decade.\n\nBy the 2010s, ABS-CBN and GMA Network would rival in their claims as the most watched network in the Philippines. While GMA Network appeals to most of the viewers in Mega Manila (through their shows that are said to be Manila-centric in setting) beginning the mid-2000s, most primetime shows from ABS-CBN appeal widely to other regions in the country, particularly in the sought-after audiences of Visayas and Mindanao. Local media experts attribute this trend to ABS-CBN's return to original Filipino programming. \n\nABS-CBN's ratings success since the late 2000s was initiated by the success of the 2009 teleserye \"May Bukas Pa\". Starring Zaijian Jaranilla as the iconic Santino, the show became the first successful religious-themed series on Philippine television, as well as the most successful child-starred Philippine television series since the 1985 demise of the original \"Anna Liza\" of Julie Vega on GMA Network. \"May Bukas Pa\" also became the first Philippine television series to have lasted at least one full year (since \"Sa Dulo ng Walang Hanggan\" in 2001-2003), ending in 2010 as the most watched television program of the 2010s on Philippine television. \n\n2010 featured some of Philippine television's strongest original teleseryes such as \"Dahil May Isang Ikaw\", which became the comeback project of the tandem of Kristine Hermosa and Jericho Rosales, and revitalized the careers of veteran actors such as Lorna Tolentino, John Estrada, Chin Chin Gutierrez and Gabby Concepcion. The show, which aired on ABS-CBN, was the first primetime project of GMA Network transferees Karylle and Sid Lucero, the latter of whom remains the only Filipino male to be nominated at the International Emmy Awards for a leading role. This was followed up by the fantaserye \"Agua Bendita\", which was the first primetime show with titular characters starred by Xyriel Manabat and Andi Eigenmann in its earlier and latter stages, marking the trend for child-starred original Filipino programming. Manabat would soon star in ABS-CBN's critical hit \"100 Days to Heaven\", which also marked the primetime return of actresses Coney Reyes and Jodi Sta. Maria.\n\nBeginning 2011, however, the mass transfer of some actors and actresses between ABS-CBN and GMA became a common trend on Philippine television. Moreover, both networks' hold on primetime television programming in the country would soon be challenged by TV5 with its debut teleserye offering in \"Babaeng Hampaslupa\", which starred with Alex Gonzaga, Alice Dixson and Susan Roces. To date, its most recent offering was the 2016 series \"Bakit Manipis ang Ulap?\" (produced by Viva Entertainment, based on the 1985 film of the same title created by Danny Zialcita) with Diether Ocampo, Claudine Barretto, Cesar Montano and Meg Imperial.\n\n2010s also marked the start of broadcast of teleseryes induced with storylines known to have reflected some of the controversial issues facing the Philippines nowadays. For instance, Julia Montes and newcomer Coco Martin starred in the 2012 ABS-CBN hit \"Walang Hanggan\". Known for tackling issues on adultery and infidelity among Filipino households, the romantic drama featured the primetime return of veteran actors Richard Gomez and Dawn Zulueta, and also gained wide popularity in most of Southeast Asia during its run, becoming the first Philippine television series to win in its ratings timeslot in all of its episodes. This also marked Martin's rise among the country's foremost television actors, as well as one of the only few to successfully transition from the independent movie industry to mainstream media industry.\n\nAnother popular ABS-CBN teleserye was the 2012-2013 series \"Ina, Kapatid, Anak\". Known for the heated on-and-offscreen rivalry of both actresses Kim Chiu and Maja Salvador during its run, as well as the primetime comeback of veteran actresses Cherry Pie Picache and Janice de Belen, the show gained national prominence for its open discussion of mother surrogacy - a topic previously but highly prohibited on Philippine media - and using the University of the Philippines (the country's national university) as its main setting. \n\nSalvador would later team up with Angel Locsin in the highly acclaimed 2014 series \"The Legal Wife\" in the same network. The show, which also talked about infidelity and adultery, marked the Jericho Rosales's first work with Salvador and Locsin, and the first ABS-CBN primetime show by GMA Network transferee JC de Vera, was known for its controversial open-ended series finale among Locsin, Salvador and Rosales' characters. The family-oriented ABS-CBN daytime romantic drama \"Be Careful With My Heart\" (aired by ABS-CBN), starring Jodi Sta. Maria and Richard Yap, became the first teleserye to exceed 2 years in its overall run (from July 9, 2012 until November 28, 2014 with a total of 622 episodes). The show has since become the most successful Philippine television series on daytime block in and out of the Philippines.\n\nGMA Network, however, scored a major milestone by being the country's first ever television network to air a gay-themed primetime series. In 2013, the short-lived but popular teleserye \"My Husband's Lover\", starring newcomer Tom Rodriguez, as well as Dennis Trillo and Carla Abellana, emerged as a hot topic of national conversation due to their portrayal in the show, which discussed about homosexuality - a widespread but controversial topic given the country's longstanding Catholic values and teachings. It has also gained prominence for being a widely viewed show despite being pitted against the simultaneously running \"Ina, Kapatid, Anak\" that has also since become a hit in and out of the Philippines. GMA Network would soon gain its ratings momentum with its 2016-2017 remake of its iconic fantaserye (portmanteau for \"fantasy-themed\" teleserye) \"Encantadia\", marking the continuity of the trend for revivals of 2000s teleseryes on Philippine television initially popularized by ABS-CBN.\n\nIn 2009, the series remake of AnnaLiza was shelved which was to star Maja Salvador and Jason Abalos, but finally revived again in 2013 (with child star Andrea Brillantes in the title role). Together with the earlier success of the 2007 remake of \"Maria Flordeluna\" and the 2010 remake of \"Mara Clara\", starring Julia Montes and Kathryn Bernardo, ABS-CBN popularized the concept of revival of previously massive hit teenager-starred telenovelas of the previous decades on Philippine television. \n\nThis would be followed up by the 2015 remake of \"Pangako Sa'Yo\" (still under ABS-CBN), starring the trio of Jodi Sta. Maria, Angelica Panganiban and Ian Veneracion as the new-generation characters Amor de Jesus-Powers, Claudia Buenavista and Eduardo Buenavista, respectively. Also known as the first major drama project of the widely popular tandem of Kathryn Bernardo and Daniel Padilla as the leads Yna Macaspac and Angelo Buenavista, respectively, the show, which ended in 2016, garnered mixed reviews but wide commercial success, making it the most successful remake of any 2000s Philippine teleserye to date. However, Sta. Maria, who portrayed the role of Lia Buenavista in the original \"Pangako Sa'Yo\" (and of which was portrayed by Brillantes in the remake), garnered rave reviews for her new-generation portrayal of Amor de Jesus-Powers (previously acted by Eula Valdez), and remains the most recent Asian actress to be nominated at the International Emmy Awards for a leading role as of 2018.\n\nMore teleseryes earned renewed international popularity by 2016, courtesy of \"Bridges of Love\" (that ran from March 16 to August 7, 2015 on ABS-CBN), starring Rosales, Salvador and Paulo Avelino, under the title \"Puentes de Amor\", the first Philippine drama aired in Latin America, which began on April 25, 2016 on Panamericana Televisión in Peru. The same year, Martin starred in the currently running 2015 series \"Ang Probinsyano\", gaining national attention for its bold portrayal of the country's ongoing anti-illegal drugs campaign despite renewed nationwide television censors by the MTRCB. ABS-CBN's recent announcement of the show's run extension until 2019 made \"Ang Probinsyano\" the longest-running overall teleserye to ever debut in the 21st century on Philippine television. \n\nSalvador would soon star in the hit 2017-2018 series \"Wildflower\" as the main characters Lily Cruz/Ivy Aguas. The show was notable for revitalizing the careers of veteran actors Tirso Cruz III, Aiko Melendez, Sunshine Cruz, Christian Vasquez and Wendell Ramos, for the primetime debuts of television newcomers Joseph Marco, Vin Abrenica, RK Bagatsing, Yen Santos and Roxanne Barcelo, and for being the first Philippine teleserye to portray controversial political topics such as nepotism and human rights abuses, as well as mental disorders like schizophrenia and paranoid on primetime. The show became one of Philippine television's most frequent social media-trending shows online, and became the highest-rated Filipino show for an early primetime television slot to date in the 21st century, becoming the first show to do so since the 1999 series finale of the original version of \"Mula Sa Puso\". Despite its finale in 2018, \"Wildflower\" is still shown to over 40 countries across Africa and Asia to date, reaching an audience of nearly 300 million viewers in all.\n\n2010s also marked the renewed popularity of long-term afternoon dramas on Philippine television after a temporary decline in the late 1990s. From 2014 to 2016, GMA broadcast \"The Half Sisters\" which starred teen actresses Barbie Forteza and Thea Tolentino. Also noted for the performances of veteran actors Jomari Yllana and Jean Garcia, the show became the network's most successful teleserye in and out of the Philippines since the 2013 final episode of \"My Husband's Lover\". Julia Montes topbilled the ABS-CBN hit afternoon teleserye \"Doble Kara\", which ran between 2015 and 2017. The show was moved in early 2016 to the 3:20 PM time slot after its noontime show \"It's Showtime\" extended their time occupation then it competed the remake of \"Sinungaling Mong Puso\" in its rival GMA Network. Due to its continuous high ratings, it was extended and became the network's first teleserye to air for more than a year since the 2014 final episode of \"Be Careful With My Heart\". Its leadout teleserye \"Tubig at Langis\", airing in 2016, earned nationwide popularity because of the intense rivalry of lead actresses Cristine Reyes and Isabelle Daza as Irene and Clara, respectively.\n\nDuring the same decade, the live format for teleserye final episodes returned on Philippine television for the first time since the finale of GMA's 2007 Philippine remake of \"Marimar\". ABS-CBN earned national attention in 2016 alone for concluding the runs of short-lived but otherwise popular teen-oriented primetime shows \"On the Wings of Love\" and \"Born for You\". \"On the Wings of Love\" was the first primetime show starring newcomer tandem James Reid and Nadine Lustre, while \"Born for You\" became the first musical-themed teleserye on Philippine television since the end of ABS-CBN's 2006 television adaptation of \"Bituing Walang Ningning\", and marked the primetime debut of Janella Salvador (after starring in \"Be Careful With My Heart\") and network newcomer Elmo Magalona.\n\nThe 2008 hit series \"Lobo\" produced 2 more sequels \"Imortal\" on 2010 and \"La Luna Sangre\" on 2017, with all three shows airing on ABS-CBN and starred by Angel Locsin. While \"Imortal\" previously starred John Lloyd Cruz, \"La Luna Sangre\" was the first primetime project of Daniel Padilla and Kathryn Bernardo since the 2016 series finale of the \"Pangako Sa'Yo\" remake, as well as the first major project on ABS-CBN by Richard Gutierrez after his tenure on GMA Network and TV5. It was also the first project of Locsin and Gutierrez as a tandem since their popularity on \"Mulawin\" on GMA in the mid-2000s.\n\nThe range of popularity of Philippine drama since the early 2000s had spun overseas, becoming popular throughout Asia and Africa, and has appealed widely to overseas Filipino communities in North America as well. Teleseryes have since evolved distinctly from most of the world's telenovelas throughout decades and highlight the country's position among the world's most successful television drama producers. Several of the Philippine teleseryes had emerged as among the most watched television programs in even difficult markets such as Indonesia, Malaysia and China. Considered one of the country's most vital economic and cultural exports, they are often dubbed into local languages, and sometimes has English and other foreign subtitles displayed when imported into those markets.\n\nABS-CBN and GMA are among the pioneering television producers in Asia to have exported their classical dramas, several of which reflect the reality of Filipino (and other similar Asian) societies, and have a universal message. \"Pangako Sa 'Yo\" (\"\"My Promise to You\"\") is one of the most successful Philippine dramas abroad. And soaps such as Kay Tagal Kang Hinintay and Recuerdo De Amor followedPrior to topping the national television ratings in China in the mid-2000s, the story gained wide popularity to more than 1 billion viewers alone in Southeast Asia and Africa. ABS-CBN also introduced a website called ABS-CBN International Sales, for easy access to their shows. Other ABS-CBN shows like \"Sana Maulit Muli\" (Taiwan), \"Lobo\" (dubbed as \"She-Wolf: The Last Sentinel\"), \"Tayong Dalawa\", \"Dahil May Isang Ikaw\", \"Kahit Isang Saglit\", \"Katorse\", the 2010 version of \"Mara Clara\" (remake), \"Magkaribal\", \"Be Careful With My Heart\" (Vietnam) and \"Walang Hanggan\" were also exported. These were followed by simultaneous broadcasts of shows such as \"Ina, Kapatid, Anak\", \"May Bukas Pa\", \"Forevermore\", \"Till I Met You\", \"Wildflower\" and the currently airing television adaptation of \"Ang Probinsyano\" at around the same time in the Philippines and overseas by the mid-2010s as a result of their popularity in and out of the country.\n\nGMA Network still holds the record for most highest rating pilot episodes including Darna and Encantadia both in 2005, GMA also pioneered and engineered the TELEFANTASYA in Television with the tv hit series Mulawin in 2004 that gathered the attention of viewers in the Philippines and followed suit through \"Boys Next Door\", a teen melodrama, which was the first Philippine television series aired in South Korea (which is considered among one of the top rival exporters of television series in Asia). The 2007 Philippine adaptation of \"MariMar\" became GMA's all-time most successful television series in and out of the Philippines,and still holds the record with their 58% national viewers and was aired to wide popularity in Thailand, Malaysia, China, Singapore, Indonesia, Cambodia, Vietnam, Uganda, Tanzania, Kenya and Hawaii. Other GMA shows such as \"Habang Kapiling Ka\", \"Kahit Kailan\", \"Bakekang\", \"Muli\", \"Impostora\", \"Mga Mata ni Anghelita\", \"Dyesebel\" and \"Encantadia\" are still broadcast in some countries in Asia and Africa. Both ABS-CBN and GMA are considered top exporters of television dramas to most of Southeast Asia and Africa in the recent years.with GMA the most successful in exporting their shows because of their original and effective concept especially with The Half Sisters and Ika-6 na Utos.\n\nIn recent years, Philippine television drama has gained international recognition from international award-giving bodies, cementing the reputation of the Philippines among the world's most prolific television drama producers. Most of these nominated dramas were from ABS-CBN. It started with \"Lobo\", winning the Best Telenovela category in the 30th BANFF World Television Festival. Several dramas were also nominated in the International Emmy for the telenovela category, including ABS-CBN's \"Kay Tagal Kang Hinintay\", \"Dahil May Isang Ikaw\", \"Kahit Isang Saglit\", \"Bridges of Love\" and GMA's \"Magdusa Ka\" and \"My Husband's Lover\". \"Be Careful With My Heart\" of ABS-CBN was recently nominated in the 2013 New York Festivals TV and Film Awards. Angel Locsin, Sid Lucero and Jodi Sta. Maria are, to date, the only Filipinos to be nominated at the International Emmys for Best Actor and Best Actress in a Drama Series for their respective roles in the 2009 series \"Lobo\", 2010 series \"Dahil May Isang Ikaw\" and the 2015-2016 remake of \"Pangako Sa 'Yo\".\n\n", "id": "7737901", "categories": ["Television in the Philippines", "Philippine culture", "Soap operas by genre"], "title": "Philippine television drama"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737911", "text": "Shire of Williams\n\nThe Shire of Williams is a local government area in the Wheatbelt region of Western Australia, about southeast of the state capital, Perth. The Shire covers an area of , and its seat of government is the town of Williams.\n\nThe Williams Road District was created in 1871 as one of the first regional local government areas in Western Australia. On 1 July 1961 it became a shire following the enactment of the \"Local Government Act 1960\".\n\nUntil 2002, the Shire was divided into 3 wards - North West (1), North East (1) and Central (3). On 3 May 2003 all wards were abolished and councillors sit at large.\n\n\n", "id": "7737911", "categories": [], "title": "Shire of Williams"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737918", "text": "Load bank\n\nA load bank is a device which develops an electrical load, applies the load to an electrical power source and converts or dissipates the resultant power output of the source.\nA load bank includes load elements with protection, control, metering and accessory devices required for operation. Load banks can either be permanently installed at a facility and permanently connected to a power source or portable versions can be used for testing power sources such as standby generators and batteries. Load banks are the best way to replicate, prove and verify the real-life demands on critical power systems.\n\nLoad banks are used in a variety of applications, including:\n\n\nThe three most common types of load banks are resistive, inductive, and capacitive. Both inductive and capacitive loads create what is known as reactance in an AC circuit. Reactance is a circuit element's opposition to an alternating current, caused by the buildup of electric or magnetic fields in the element due to the current and is the \"imaginary\" component of impedance, or the resistance to AC signals at a certain frequency. Capacitive reactance is equal to 1/(2⋅π⋅f⋅C), and inductive reactance is equal to 2⋅π⋅f⋅L. The unit of reactance is the ohm. Inductive reactance resists the change to current, causing the circuit current to lag voltage. Capacitive reactance resists the change to voltage, causing the circuit current to lead voltage. \n\nA resistive load bank, the most common type, provides equivalent loading for both generators and prime movers. That is, for each kilowatt (or horsepower) of load applied to the generator by the load bank, an equal amount of load is applied to the prime mover by the generator. A resistive load bank, therefore, removes energy from the complete system: load bank from generator—generator from prime mover—prime mover from fuel. Additional energy is removed as a consequence of resistive load bank operation: waste heat from coolant, exhaust and generator losses and energy consumed by accessory devices. A resistive load bank impacts upon all aspects of a generating system.\n\nThe load of a resistive load bank is created by the conversion of electrical energy to heat via high-power resistors such as grid resistors. This heat must be dissipated from the load bank, either by air or by water, by forced means or convection.\n\nIn a testing system, a resistive load simulates real-life resistive loads, such as incandescent lighting and heating loads as well as the resistive or unity power factor component of magnetic (motors, transformers) loads.\n\nThe most common type uses wire resistance, usually with fan cooling, and this type is often portable and moved from generator to generator for test purposes. Sometimes a load of this type is built into a building, but this is unusual.\n\nRarely a salt water rheostat is used. It can be readily improvised, which makes it useful in remote locations.\n\nFor testing automotive batteries, a carbon pile load bank allows an adjustable load to be placed on the battery or charging system, allowing accurate simulation of the heavy load on the battery during cranking of the engine. Such devices are usually portable and may include metering to show voltage and current. \n\nAn inductive load includes inductive (lagging power factor) loads.\n\nAn inductive load consists of an iron-core reactive element which, when used in conjunction with a resistive load bank, creates a lagging power factor load. Typically, the inductive load will be rated at a numeric value 75% that of the corresponding resistive load such that when applied together a resultant 0.8 power factor load is provided. That is to say, for each 100 kW of resistive load, 75 kVAr of inductive load is provided. Other ratios are possible to obtain other power factor ratings. An inductive load is used to simulate a real-life mixed commercial loads consisting of lighting, heating, motors, transformers, etc. With a resistive-inductive load bank, full power system testing is possible, because the provided impedance supplies currents out of phase with voltage and allows for performance evaluation of generators, voltage regulators, load tap changers, conductors, switchgear and other equipment.\nA capacitive load bank or capacitor bank is similar to an inductive load bank in rating and purpose, except leading power factor loads are created, so reactive power is supplied from these loads to the system, hence improves the power factor. These loads simulate certain electronic or non-linear loads typical of telecommunications, computer or UPS industries.\n\nA combined load bank usually consists of both resistive elements and inductors that can be used to provide load testing at non-unity PF (lagging) including the capability to test the generator set fully at 100% nameplate kVA rating. Combined load banks incorporate resistors and inductors all in a single construction which can be independently switched to allow resistive only, inductive only, or varying lagging power factor testing. Combined load banks are rated in kilovolt-amperes (kVA). It’s worth noting that combined load banks can consist of resistive, inductive, and capacitive (RLC) also.\n\nTypically, facilities require motor-driven devices, transformers and capacitors. If this is the case, then the load banks used for testing require reactive power compensation. The ideal solution is a combination of both resistive and reactive elements in one load bank package. \n\nResistive/reactive loads are able to mimic motor loads and electromagnetic devices within a power system, as well as provide purely resistive loads.\n\nMany backup generators and turbines need to be commissioned at nameplate capacity using a combination of resistive and reactive load to fully qualify their operating capability. Using a resistive/reactive load bank enables comprehensive testing from a single unit. A range of resistive/reactive load banks are available to simulate these types of loads on a power source and the transformers, relays and switches which will distribute the power throughout the facility.\n\nResistive/reactive load banks are great choices for testing turbines, switchgear, rotary UPS, generators and UPS systems. They can also be used for integrated system testing of utility substation protection systems, particularly for more complex relays like distance, directional overcurrent, power directional and others. A resistive/reactive inductive and/or capacitive load is often required to test solar inverters to ensure solar panels can be stopped from producing electricity in the event of a power outage. The resistive/reactive combination load banks are used to test the engine generator set at its rated power factor. In most cases this is 0.8 power factor.\n\nAn electronic load bank tends to be a fully programmable, air- or water-cooled design used to simulate a solid state load and to provide constant power and current loading on circuits for precision testing.\n\nWhere a diesel-electric locomotive is equipped for dynamic braking, the braking resistor may be used as a load bank for testing the engine-generator set.\n\n", "id": "7737918", "categories": [], "title": "Load bank"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737926", "text": "Interstate 80 in Illinois\n\nInterstate 80 (I-80) is a part of the Interstate Highway System that runs from San Francisco, California, to Teaneck, New Jersey. I-80 enters Illinois from Iowa in the west, southwest of Rapids City and runs generally eastward through East Moline, LaSalle and Joliet, before entering Indiana in Lansing. The interstate runs for approximately through the state.\n\nIn the 1920s, two state highways followed the general alignment that I-80 takes. In 1932 US 6 was extended through Illinois, paralleling the alignment that I-80 in Illinois. Construction started in 1957 and I-80 was completed in 1968. In the early 1990s Illinois wanted to reroute I-80 in the Quad Cities area. At the same time the section of I-80 that is concurrent with I-294 was reconstructed. The portion of I-80 that is concurrent with the Kingery Expressway was rebuilt in the mid-2000s.\n\nInterstate 80 extends from west to east across the northern portion of the state through the population centers of Quad Cities and the south Chicago suburbs. The freeway is mostly maintained by Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT), with Illinois State Toll Highway Authority (ISTHA) maintaining the section of I-80 that is concurrent with the Tri-State Tollway. The busiest section of the freeway is between the I-94 and IL 83 interchanges in Lansing. Approximately 181,200 vehicles used the freeway on average each day in 2011; in contrast the lowest traffic level was 16,400 vehicles between the IL 78 and IL 40 interchanges in Henry and Bureau Counties. I-80 contains between a minimum of four lanes and a maximum of ten lanes total. The majority of the highway runs through farmland and urban areas.\n\nI-80 enters Illinois on the Fred Schwengel Memorial Bridge over the Mississippi River, southwest of Rapids City. After leaving the bridge the interstate has a folded diamond interchange with IL 84. The highway heads south, as a four-lane interstate, passing along the east side of the Quad Cities. Eastbound I-80 traffic has access to an Illinois Welcome Center. The road has a cloverleaf interchange with the western terminus of I-88. After the interchange with I-88, the highway crosses over Rock River. The interstate has a diamond interchange with U.S. Route 6 (US 6), before having an interchange with I-74 in East Moline. At this interchange, I-80 turns easterly paralleling US 6 and leaving the Quad Cities area. East of Quad Cities the interstate passes through rural farmland as a four-lane interstate. The road passes south of Geneseo, with the city having one interchange at IL 82. The road passes south of Atkinson, before passing over US 6 and a railroad track.\n\nAfter crossing over the railroad tracks the interstate has an interchange with IL 78, north of Annawan. The interstate continues towards the east having a folded diamond interchange with IL 40, before having rest areas on both sides of the roadway. The highway passes on the north side of Princeton, having an interchange with IL 26, near a commercial part of the city. I-80 passes over US 34, before leaving Princeton and having an interchange with the northern terminus of I-180. The interstate has a rural interchange with IL 89, before entering LaSalle. In LaSalle the highway, has a diamond interchange with 103 Road, just north of the Illinois Valley Regional Airport. The highway has an interchange with IL 251, with commercial properties around the interchange. I-80 has an interchange with IL 351, just south of the Mitchells Grove Nature Preserve, before having an interchange with I-39/US 51.\n\nAfter the interchange with I-39, I-80 leaves LaSalle, heading towards the east passing through rural farmland. Between 12th road and 14th Road the interstate passes the AASHO Road Test site, one of old test loops used for testing different types of road surfaces in the 1950s. The interstate enters Ottawa and has an interchange with IL 23, near many commercial businesses. After IL 23 the freeway leaves Ottawa and crosses over the Fox River, before having an interchange with IL 71. The road passes through rural farmland, having a few rural interchanges before entering Morris. In Morris the roadway curves toward the northeast, having an interchange with IL 47, near many commercial properties. The highway leaves Morris, passing through farmland, having a rural interchange with a county road. Both directions of I-80 have a rest area before entering Minooka. In Minooka the interstate curves the east, before turning back towards the northeast and leaving the village. The road enters Will County by curving towards the northeast. The interstate curves towards the east, before having an interchange with I-55.\n\nAfter I-55, I-80 enters Joliet, passing near many warehouses. The road has an interchange with IL 7, before passing near residential. The road crosses over the Des Plaines River on the Des Plaines River Bridge. After the river the freeway has an interchange with US 52/IL 53. The interstate has an interchange with a city street, before crossing over a railroad tracks. After the railroad tracks the freeway has a diamond interchange with another city street. The road has a folded diamond interchange with US 30, before passing southeast of Potawatomi Woods County Forest Preserve. While passing through the preserve the roadway becomes a six-lane interstate. The interstate has an interchange with the southern terminus of the Veterans Memorial Tollway (I-355). The residential properties end and the highway passes through a more industrial area, before passing through the Yankee Woods (Cook County Forest Preserve).\n\nAfter the preserve the interstate has an interchange with I-57. I-80 joins the Tri-State Tollway (I-294) heading towards the east as a ten-lane tollway. The tollway passes over a rail yard, before having an interchange with IL 1. After IL 1 the roadway narrows to eight-lanes and passes through the Thornton Quarry. The interstate passes under the Chicago Southland Lincoln Oasis, before passing north of Wampum Lake. After passing the lake the tollway has an interchange with I-94. At this interchange with I-94 the Tri-State Tollway and I-294 both end, with I-94 running concurrent with I-80 towards the east. The concurrency between I-80 and I-94 travels on a freeway locally known as the Kingery Expressway. The interstate has a single-point urban interchange (SPUI) with IL 83 and the western end of US 6 concurrency. East of US 6 exit the freeway become a ten-lane interstate, passing near residential properties. The road enters Indiana and the freeway name becomes Borman Expressway.\n\nThe IDOT operates 5 rest areas and ISHTA operates one Oasis in 163 miles of interstate highway. Along I-80, there are three locations that have facilities for each direction of traffic. Parking areas are divided so passenger automobiles are separated from semi trucks. Common among most of the rest stops are restrooms, payphones with TTY capabilities, weather information, picnic areas and vending machines. The eastbound rest area near Rapid City does not allow large trucks and doesn't have vending machines or TTY capabilities.\n\nThe Oasis is the Chicago Southland Lincoln Oasis, located in South Holland. Like most of the other Oasis this location has several fast food restaurants, gas stations, convenience store, visitors center and free wireless internet. This Oasis is one of the few with an electric vehicle charging station. The Chicago Southland Lincoln Oasis was originally named Lincoln Oasis, the ISHTA added Chicago Southland to the name. The change was made to better represent the area around the Oasis. The Oasis' name was changed in February 2006 changing the name officially to the Chicago Southland Lincoln Oasis.\n\nIn 1917, there were many sections of named highways which made up the route that current I-80 takes through Illinois. The first was the Blue Line. It was routed between Rock Island and Princeton. The second section was named Sunset Trail and it traveled between Princeton and Ottawa, passing through LaSalle. Illinois Valley Trail went from Ottawa to Orland Park. From Orland Park to the Indiana state line no named highway was available. The first state highways along the I-80 corridor were numbered IL 7 from the Rock Island east to the Orland Park area and IL 53 from Orland Park east to Indiana state line in 1923. The United States Numbered Highway System was approved on November 11, 1926, and US 32 was routed between Rock Island and Princeton. East of Princeton US 32 followed a route closer to current US 34. US 6 was commissioned in Illinois in 1932 replacing US 32 west of Princeton, IL 7 between Princeton and Joliet, and IL 53 from Joliet to the Indiana state line.\n\nConstruction of a test track for the Interstate Highway System between Utica and Ottawa began in 1952. The test track had six different segments of roadway, with different types of surfaces. One of the old test tracks can still be seen from I-80. The first section of I-80 to open was the section that is known as the Kingery Expressway, this section open in 1957, as US 6. In October 1958 the test track west of Ottawa opens to testing. The section of I-80 that is concurrent with the Tri-State Tollway was opened in 1958. November 1960 the testing at the test track is complete. The interstate opened between IL 71, near Ottawa, and I-55, near Joliet, in 1960. The segment of roadway between IL 23 and IL 71, near Ottawa, open in 1961. In 1962 the highway was extended west to IL 89, near LaSalle, replacing and paralleling the test track most of the way to Utica. Also in 1962, another section of road open between US 67 and IL 78. During 1964 and 1965 the gap between IL 78 and IL 89 was completed and opened to traffic. The north-south section of I-80 in Illinois was open in 1967. The last section of I-80 to open was the section between I-55 and the Tri-State Tollway, with it opening 1968.\n\nIn 1990 and 1991, IDOT proposed rerouting I-80 onto present day I-280, with current I-80 becoming I-74. IDOT listed safety concerns and cost savings as reasons to reroute I-80. Iowa officials challenged the reroute of I-80 and the routes of I-74 and I-80 never changed. Between 1991 and 1992 the section of I-80 that is concurrent with the Tri-State Tollway was reconstructed and widened to eight-lanes. Between 2003 and 2007 construction to widen the Kingery Expressway, the project costed $460 Million. This was the first major project on the Kingey Expressway since it was opened in the 1950s. In early 2011, IDOT began construction to widen a section of freeway to six-lanes between US 30 and US 45. This project had an opening ceremony on October 24, 2012, with the project costing $26 million.\n\n", "id": "7737926", "categories": ["Transportation in Henry County, Illinois", "Transportation in Will County, Illinois", "Transportation in Rock Island County, Illinois", "Transportation in Bureau County, Illinois", "Transportation in LaSalle County, Illinois", "Interstate 80", "Interstate Highways in Illinois", "Transportation in Grundy County, Illinois", "Transportation in Kendall County, Illinois"], "title": "Interstate 80 in Illinois"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737930", "text": "U.S. Central Command OPLAN 1003-98\n\nOPLAN 1003–98 was the United States military's pre-2002 contingency plan in event of a war with Iraq. It originally called for 500,000 troops for the invasion and control of Iraq.\n\nTommy Franks' \"American Soldier\" gives extensive details of the replanning process that led to the final \"Hybrid\" plan for the 2003 invasion of Iraq. \n\n", "id": "7737930", "categories": ["United States Department of Defense plans"], "title": "U.S. Central Command OPLAN 1003-98"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737932", "text": "Bentleigh Secondary College\n\nBentleigh Secondary College is a coeducational public high school in Bentleigh East, Victoria, Australia. Established in 1956, it has been renamed several times before becoming Bentleigh Secondary College. \n\nBentleigh Secondary College has recently been re-developed. In stage one of the building program, funded by the state government, a new performing arts centre, administration block, and sports stadium were built. The building that was previously the college library has been converted into a VCE centre. A new science block was also completed in late 2008, following the demolition of what was previously B-block and C-block.\n\nThe college is made up of eight main buildings:\n\nThe college grounds include a sustainable garden, a football oval and soccer pitches.\n\nStudents learn Japanese and attend three periods of their elected language per week for Year 7 and 8. After Year 8, LOTE (Japanese) becomes an electives subject.\n\nThe college has implemented a Gifted & Talented Program whereby students, based on the results of a standardised test undertaken before entering high school, of high potential to achieve are grouped into one class until the end of year nine. In this case, the class is 7.4, 8.4 and 9.4. 10.4 is renamed 10D which also contains the students from previous .4 classes and does Advanced English, Advanced Maths and Advanced Science.\n\nPerforming arts at Bentleigh Secondary College consists of music, drama and dance. With the option to study an instrument, there are several well-developed school bands. The Symphonic Wind Ensemble is the most senior of the bands made up of brass, woodwind and percussion players. This ensemble competed in the Advanced Concert Band section of the Melbourne School Bands festival for the first time in 2009. There is also a concert band, Intermediate Band and Year 7 Concert Band. There are Senior, Intermediate and Junior Jazz Bands, as well as senior rock band which perform at the annual \"Big Band Boogie\" and on concert nights. In addition to these bands there are a dozen or so small ensembles such as brass ensemble and clarinet ensemble. Also new this year is the college choir, which is open for all students to join.\n'Chicago: A Musical Vaudeville' is the School's production for 2011.\nFor each school Production, the Music Department also organises a Production Band of students and staff to accompany the Actors.\n\nAt approximately 3:00 am on 10 February 2008, two police officers saw smoke coming from the school and a car leaving this area. The fire has caused more than $100,000 in damage, however the decision of the officers to proceed to the cause of the smoke rather than pursue the culprits prevented further destruction.\n\nIn March 2017, two sisters who attend the college were ordered to remove their hair-braids or face consequences by school staff. The sisters, of South Sudanese descent, pointed out that the braids were the healthiest and best way to manage their hair and refused to remove them. The sisters accused the school of discrimination. Media coverage and public outcry resulted from the incident due to the school's perceived lack of racial sensitivity and understanding.\n\n", "id": "7737932", "categories": ["Schools in Melbourne", "Secondary schools in Victoria (Australia)", "Educational institutions established in 1956", "Public schools in Victoria (Australia)"], "title": "Bentleigh Secondary College"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737939", "text": "Talmudic law\n\nTalmudic law is the law that is derived from the Talmud based on the teachings of the Talmudic Sages. \n\n", "id": "7737939", "categories": ["Legal concepts", "Talmud", "Legal systems"], "title": "Talmudic law"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737946", "text": "Invergarry and Fort Augustus Railway\n\nThe Invergarry and Fort Augustus Railway was a branch-line railway built in Scotland, connecting the named places with the main line at Spean Bridge. It opened in 1903.\n\nServing exceptionally sparsely inhabited areas it was never commercially successful, but it rekindled hostilities between larger railways over a planned railway connection along the Great Glen reaching Inverness; however this scheme never materialised.\n\nPassenger train operation ceased in 1933 and the line closed completely in 1946.\n\nThe Great Glen is a fault-controlled glacial valley that runs diagonally across the Highlands of Scotland from Fort William on Loch Linnhe in the south west to Inverness on the Moray Firth in the north east.\n\nIt forms an easy communication route and as well as roads, the Caledonian Canal was constructed along it by linking natural lochs with canal sections. It opened to sea-going vessels in 1822 but the limited size of the canal sections proved inadequate for general merchant shipping.\n\nIn the railway age, Inverness was an important commercial centre, and from 1854 it was the focus of railway communication, and from a company amalgamation in 1865 the Highland Railway was dominant in that area. Agriculture and industry was active in the eastern side of the country and railway development there was more vigorous. By contrast the western side of the area was backward and depressed. The first railway to attempt to reach the west coast was the Dingwall and Skye Railway, authorised in 1865 to build from Dingwall, north of Inverness, to Kyle of Lochalsh, close to the Isle of Skye. In fact the line opened only as far as Stromeferry on Loch Carron, a more difficult anchorage than Kyle of Lochalsh, in 1870. (The Highland Railway later absorbed the Dingwall and Skye Railway, and in 1897 it extended the line to Kyle of Lochalsh.)\n\nAn approach to the west coast further south was attempted by the Callander and Oban Railway, by extending from an existing branch line from Dunblane at Callander. Oban was already an important hub of communication with the islands and coastal towns. The construction of this line was also difficult, passing through rocky landscapes with a thin population density. There were serious money problems, but with the considerable support of the Caledonian Railway Oban was at last connected to the railway system in 1880.\n\nWidespread attention was given to the depressed economic conditions in the West Highlands, and in the 1883 Parliamentary session the \"Glasgow and North Western Railway\" was proposed. It was to leave the North British Railway at Maryhill (on the north west margin of Glasgow) and run by Loch Lomondside and Glencoe to Fort William and Inverness. This was an ambitious scheme, but the Highland Railway saw it as a threat to its supremacy in its area, and it opposed the scheme vigorously; the result was that the Glasgow and North Western Railway was rejected in Parliament.\n\nIt was a more modest proposal that actually provided the third link to the western coast: the West Highland Railway, which built a line from Craigendoran, opened in 1894 and extended to Banavie, on the Caledonian Canal, the following year. The West Highland Railway had intended to build their line to Roshven, in the Sound of Arisaig. Major difficulties had arisen with landowners' objections to the Roshven line, and the West Highland Railway contented itself with extending instead to Mallaig from Fort William, and that section opened in 1901.\n\nThe West Highland Railway was sponsored by the North British Railway, and hostility flared up between the NBR and the Highland Railway; both companies proposed lines along the Great Glen in 1893. In fact both companies reviewed their intentions and withdrew their schemes, and agreed not to promote further similar schemes for a period of ten years, the so-called \"ten year truce\".\n\nThe contractor and entrepreneur Charles Forman had been active in encouraging the various Great Glen schemes, and now he proposed the Invergarry and Fort Augustus Railway; it was to run to Fort Augustus from Spean Bridge on the West Highland Railway. In 1896 the board of the company comprised: \n\nThe scheme attracted considerable local support and it obtained its authorising Act of Parliament on 14 August 1896. The population of Fort Augustus was less than 500, and it was widely assumed that the line was a speculative bid to reach Inverness.\n\nFormans and McCall were appointed engineers of the railway, and James Young of Glasgow was the contractor. Construction started on 2 March 1897 when Mrs Eliza Stewart Ellice, of Invergarry, wife of Captain Ellice, deputy chairman of the company, cut the first turf. but the process was very slow, in part due to an exceptionally high standard of specification for the architectural and engineering assets. Elaborate stations with spacious goods yards were provided. Invergarry had four goods sidings and separate loading banks for cattle and goods.\n\nIn April 1900 the directors paid a visit of inspection and travelled over the whole length of the line, which was reported as practically completed.\n\nThe line was 23 miles 13 chains in length to Fort Augustus station; the Pier extension was 73 chains. The first mile and last mile of the railway absorbed around one third of the capital expenditure. From the west end of Spean Bridge the line passed along the banks of the River Spean and through a gorge which required four lattice spans at a maximum height above the river of , one of , two of and one of . After a stretch through wooded countryside, it crossed the river Gloy on a three-span lattice girder bridge of two spans and one span. The line then climbed to the summit of at Letterfinlay. The descent to the Great Glen included the Oich tunnel, and a four-span Calder Burn viaduct to reach Aberchalder. The final stretch followed the shoreline of Loch Uanagan to Fort Augustus town station. From there it crossed the Caledonian Canal on a swing bridge to the pier station on Loch Ness. The line had a ruling gradient of 1 in 66 and was single throughout, although land had been acquired for double track. there were passing loops at all the stations, which were:\n\nThe line had cost £344,000 () to construct, or around £14,300 per mile. Michael Bass, 1st Baron Burton had provided £163,000 of the capital required for construction. The line was ready for opening in 1901, but the company had run out of money and had none to purchase locomotives, coaches and wagons. The company approached the North British Railway to operate the line for them. The Highland Railway objected to this and the matter was investigated by Parliamentary authorities. This led to a lengthy delay in agreeing terms of operation. The North British Railway required 60% of the revenue with a minimum of £3,000 each year (). The Highland Railway agreed to operate it at £2,000 per half year. The Invergarry and Fort Augustus Railway company had to submit a private bill to parliament to confirm the working arrangement, and this was passed on 30 June 1903.\n\nOn 14 July 1903 Colonel John Wallace Pringle inspected the railway on behalf of the Board of Trade and declared it open for traffic. The line opened to passengers on 22 July 1903. The formal ceremony was performed at Spean Bridge by Mrs Eliza Stewart Ellice, of Invergarry, who had cut the first turf in 1897. She was presented with a gold whistle. A large party of invited guests travelled by train to Fort Augustus where they were entertained by William Whitelaw, chairman of the Highland Railway Company, to luncheon at the Lovat Arms Hotel.\n\nThe company appointed Hugh Fraser as stationmaster at Fort Augustus, James Morrison at Invergarry and Donald Macdonald to Gairlochy.\n\nThe building of the line was the signal for a resumption of the fight for a railway along the Great Glen: the I&FAR itself as well as the Highland Railway and the North British Railway proposed lines linking to Inverness, but the Highland gained the ascendency. However it was excluded in the Commons from running powers over the I&FAR, and the Highland Bill was subsequently thrown out in the Lords.\nBy the 32nd section of its Act of Incorporation, the railway was, for the benefit of the owners of the Glengarry estate, required to construct, a permanent station at within 2 furlongs of the South-West end of Loch Oich, \"to be called Invergarry Station, for passengers, animals and goods, with separate waiting-rooms for ladies and gentlemen and other usual and necessary accommodation therein\" and to \"stop all ordinary trains other than express or special or excursion trains at such station daily for the purpose of taking up and setting down traffic of any kind.\"\n\nA 4-4-0 tank engine, no 52 was generally used as the motive power during the Highland Railway period. There were four trains each way daily. In September 1905, King Edward VII travelled over the line from Spean Bridge to Invergarry with George Cadogan, 5th Earl Cadogan and Countess Cadogan.\n\nThe Fort Augustus Pier station was on Loch Ness and tourist traffic was contemplated. However the dominant steamer operator on the loch, David MacBrayne Ltd, declined to use the railway pier and it saw very little use. The extension to the pier involved a hand-operated swing bridge over the Caledonian Canal and a viaduct over the River Oich. Passenger traffic on the pier extension was suspended from 1 October 1906, although occasional goods trains ran until July 1924 when the extension was finally closed permanently.\n\nIn March 1906 many areas of the western Highlands experienced exceptional rainfall and flooding. Describing the dislocation to railways in the Lochaber area the \"Scotsman\" reported The most serious damage reported, however, occurred on the Invergarry and Fort-Augustus Railway, in the neighbourhood of Letterfinlay, where two large sections of the line have been washed away by the enormous rush of water down the hillside. In consequence of this mishap, no traffic occurred over the line on Saturday.\n\nThe line was heavily loss-making, due to the sparse population and the availability of a direct alternative in the steamers on the parallel Caledonian Canal. The Highland Railway decided to cut its losses: confident that its supremacy at Inverness was no longer at risk. It withdrew its trains from 1 May 1907.\n\nThe abandonment of the Invergarry and Fort-Augustus Railway by the Highland Railway Company will surprise no-one who knows the conditions under which that line is at present worked. The railway ought really to be a branch and feeder of the West Highland Railway. Beginning at Spean Bridge on the latter system it is laid through a beautiful but sparsely-populated country to Fort-Augustus, midway between Inverness and Fort-William. For a considerable part of the way it runs alongside the chain of lochs forming the Caledonian Canal, and is thus in direct competition to the steamboat traffic on the Canal. Fort-Augustus is a small town of very inconsiderable importance except as a tourist centre, and none of the other villages tapped by the line is large or busy.\n\nThe North British Railway took over on 1 May 1907; there was a three-year agreement to work the line for 60% of gross receipts, with a minimum take of £2,000. The NBR operated two trains each way daily, but increased this to four in the summer.\n\nThe North British Railway proposed to close the line down from 31 January 1911, but the wealthy sponsors of the I&FAR persuaded them to persevere for one more summer, which they did. The financial situation did not improve and the NBR withdrew its trains from 31 October 1911.\n\nThe line was now closed, and for the time being it avoided the operating costs that led to the huge losses, while the company contented itself with taking in small sums of non-railway income. A huge movement of public opinion now took place urging retention of the line, notwithstanding the extremely low usage of it when it was operating. A request for Government support was put forward, though without success, and for the time being the line remained closed.\n\nIn 1912 the NBR offered to purchase the line for £22,500 () but the I&FAR company refused the sale. The company offered the railway for sale in December 1912, but were taken to the Court of Session by Lochaber District Committee, Aird District Committee, the trustee of Edward Ellice and Major Bailey of Invergarry on 5 February 1913 to prevent the assets being sold for scrap. This was referred to the First Division of the Court of Session in March 1913 who found in favour of the complainants and prevented the railway from being sold.\n\nIn 1913 Inverness-shire County Council offered to contribute an additional £5,000 and the sale was agreed at £27,500; by an Act of 28 August 1914 the transfer was authorised by Parliament.\n\nThe NBR resumed working the line on 1 August 1913, as contractors to the I&FAR for the time being; formal transfer to the North British Railway took place on 30 August 1914. There were three trains daily in summer and two in winter. Through trains to and from Fort William were later operated.\n\nThe railway suffered two landslides in 1916 which affected services badly. At the end of January, floods caused a landslide resulting in around 1,000 tons of debris blocking several hundred yards of line just east of Invergarry station. In October more heavy rain caused flooding which suspended traffic on the line.\n\nOn 2 August 1924, another cloudburst caused a landslide a mile north of Invergarry and a train from Fort Augustus rain into the debris on the line and derailed.\n\nA writer for the Railway Magazine had a run on the line in 1940:\n\nPassenger and parcels traffic on the Fort Augustus branch was suspended in November, 1933, and there is now only one weekly coal and petrol train, leaving Spean Bridge at 10.30 a.m. on Saturdays, all other traffic being dealt with by L.N.E.R. motor lorries and David McBrayne’s buses and steamers, the latter in summer only. The locomotive working the branch is an ex-North British 0-6-0 goods, No. 9663, which runs out and home light from Fort William, and makes up its train at Spean Bridge; the latter usually consists of twelve to sixteen wagons and a brake... The branch presents a rather neglected appearance, for several sidings, passing loops, footbridges, signal boxes, and all signalling except for a fixed distant just outside Spean Bridge, have been removed. Leaving Spean Bridge I travelled in the brake, having, in addition to the guard, a bicycle, two passengers, some newspapers, three or four bags of coal and a large consignment of cakes, as companions. We stopped at Gairlochy. the first station out, where the guard’s wife is station-mistress, and I was very interested to see the way in which all of the station buildings have been converted into a camping hostel, similar to the camping coaches, but with fireplaces telephone, water laid on, and \"Mrs. Guard” to minister to one’s wants. Similar arrangements have been made at Invergarry and Fort Augustus, the charge averaging £2 to £3 per person per week.\n\nLeaving Gairlochy we passed Invergloy platform, also two sidings put in for timber traffic during the 1914-1919 war, and pulled up at Invergarry. A stationmaster-clerk is in charge here and a similar arrangement obtains at Fort Augustus... A short distance ahead a tunnel is passed, and speed rose to 35 or 40 m.p.h... Passing Aberchalder, the station buildings of which are now let to a fruit merchant, about 20 min. journey brought us to Fort Augustus. Here all the passenger tracks have been removed, except a through line which ran down to the Pier station (closed in 1907). ¾ mile further on a swing-bridge over the Caledonian Canal and a viaduct still remain, together with a few hundred yards of track, but when the Glasgow-Inverness road was reconstructed in 1934-1936 part of an embankment of the pier extension was removed completely and the rails are thus severed. The two-road engine shed is derelict, but the turntable is still in use by the engineer’s Department Ro Railer, which comes up from Fort William occasionally... About 12.15 p.m. the train commences its return journey, which has no stops, save one, at Gairlochy, to pick up the guard's dinner, and Spean Bridge is reached about 1.30 p.m. Gairlochy, Invergarry, and Fort Augustus stations have recently been repainted and numbers of men were at work renovating several bridges: a sleeping van was stationed at Aberchalder for them.\n\nPassenger trains continued until 1 December 1933, when the very poor patronage caused the London and North Eastern Railway (LNER, as successor to the North British Railway) to close the service. Weekly coal trains continued running until they were withdrawn and the line closed on 31 December 1946. The last train to run on the line was on 31 December 1946 with 18 wagons loaded with timber.\n\nAfter closure, Fort Augustus station was occupied by a company constructing a hydro electric power scheme, and on 30 October 1950, the station building was badly damaged by fire.\n\nSome of the line today has been built over by roads and holiday parks, although it mostly survives in a reasonably good, if overgrown, condition. The many bridges and single tunnel are in particularly good condition. Some of the line along Loch Oich has been incorporated into the Great Glen Way, and a further section is proposed to become part of National Cycle Route 78.\n\nA restoration project is (2016) under way at Invergarry Station, the last remaining station that is largely intact. The Invergarry Station Preservation Society plan to create a static museum, with a short length of track and several freight wagons.\n\nIn March 2015 480 ft of track was laid in platform 1. Work then commenced in constructing the replica signal cabin on the platform. The project is now known as the Invergarry & Fort Augustus Railway Museum. The track has been extended a quarter of a mile to the west and in 2019 a spur will cross the cycle track giving access to the sidings.\n", "id": "7737946", "categories": ["Railway companies disestablished in 1914", "Railway lines opened in 1903", "Closed railway lines in Scotland", "Pre-grouping British railway companies", "Highland Railway"], "title": "Invergarry and Fort Augustus Railway"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737949", "text": "Texas State Highway 179\n\nState Highway 179 (SH 179) is a short Texas state highway connecting Teague and Dew. The route was designated on October 26, 1932 along its current route.\n", "id": "7737949", "categories": ["State highways in Texas", "Transportation in Freestone County, Texas"], "title": "Texas State Highway 179"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737958", "text": "Ballina Shire\n\nBallina Shire is a local government area in the Northern Rivers region of New South Wales, Australia. The Shire was formed in 1976 by the amalgamation of the Municipality of Ballina and Tintenbar Shire. The Shire is located adjacent to the \"Tasman Sea\" and the Pacific Highway. The Council seat is located in the town of Ballina.\n\nThe Mayor of Ballina Shire Council is David Wright, an independent politician.\n\nThe Ballina Shire has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nAt the 2011 census, there were people in the Ballina local government area, of these 48.0 per cent were male and 52.0 per cent were female. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people made up 3.1 per cent of the population, which was higher than the national and state averages of 2.5 per cent. The median age of people in the Ballina Shire area was 45 years, which was significantly higher than the national median of 37 years. Children aged 0 – 14 years made up 17.9 per cent of the population and people aged 65 years and over made up 21.5 per cent of the population. Of people in the area aged 15 years and over, 49.8 per cent were married and 14.1 per cent were either divorced or separated.\n\nPopulation growth in the Ballina Shira area between the 2001 census and the was 3.89 per cent; and in the subsequent five years to the 2011 census, population growth was 2.11 per cent. When compared with total population growth of Australia for the same periods, being 5.78 per cent and 8.32 per cent respectively, population growth in the Ballina local government area was significantly lower than the national average. The median weekly income for residents within the Ballina Shire area was significantly lower than the national average.\n\nAt the 2011 census, the proportion of residents in the Ballina local government area who stated their ancestry as Australian or Anglo-Saxon exceeded 85 per cent of all residents (national average was 65.2 per cent). In excess of 60% of all residents in the Ballina nominated a religious affiliation with Christianity at the 2011 census, which was significantly higher than the national average of 50.2 per cent. Meanwhile, as at the census date, compared to the national average, households in the Ballina local government area had a significantly lower than average proportion (4.7 per cent) where two or more languages are spoken (national average was 20.4 per cent); and a significantly higher proportion (93.1 per cent) where English only was spoken at home (national average was 76.8 per cent).\n\nBallina Shire Council is composed of ten Councillors, including the Mayor, for a fixed four-year term of office. The Mayor is directly elected while the nine other Councillors are elected proportionally as three separate wards, each electing three Councillors. The most recent election was held on 10 September 2016, and the makeup of the Council, including the Mayor, is as follows:\n\nThe current Council, elected in 2016, in order of election by ward, is:\n\n", "id": "7737958", "categories": ["Northern Rivers", "Local government areas of New South Wales"], "title": "Ballina Shire"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737963", "text": "A. C. Sreehari\n\nA. C. Sreehari (born 1970,in Payyanur,Kerala) is a poet/writer in Malayalam literature. His poems are included in many anthologies of Malayalam writing, such as \"Yuvakavithakkoottam\" (Kottayam: D. C. Books, 1999), \"Kavithayute Noottaantu\" (Kottayam: S.P.C.S., 2001) and \"Palathu\" (Kottayam: D.C. Books, 2003).He is a co-consultant editor of the \"Ethirdisa Monthly\", published from Payyanur. He is on the staff of the English Department of Payyanur College, Payyanur, affiliated with the University of Kannur, Kerala state, India.\n\n", "id": "7737963", "categories": ["Malayalam poets", "Poets from Kerala", "20th-century Indian male writers", "Malayalam-language writers", "20th-century Indian poets", "1970 births", "Living people", "Indian male poets"], "title": "A. C. Sreehari"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737980", "text": "Incipient wetness impregnation\n\nIncipient wetness impregnation (IW or IWI), also called capillary impregnation or dry impregnation, is a commonly used technique for the synthesis of heterogeneous catalysts. Typically, the active metal precursor is dissolved in an aqueous or organic solution. Then the metal-containing solution is added to a catalyst support containing the same pore volume as the volume of the solution that was added. Capillary action draws the solution into the pores. Solution added in excess of the support pore volume causes the solution transport to change from a capillary action process to a diffusion process, which is much slower. The catalyst can then be dried and calcined to drive off the volatile components within the solution, depositing the metal on the catalyst surface. The maximum loading is limited by the solubility of the precursor in the solution. The concentration profile of the impregnated compound depends on the mass transfer conditions within the pores during impregnation and drying.\n\n", "id": "7737980", "categories": [], "title": "Incipient wetness impregnation"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737988", "text": "South African Council of Churches\n\nThe South African Council of Churches (SACC) is an interdenominational forum in South Africa. It was a prominent anti-apartheid organisation during the years of apartheid in South Africa. Its leaders have included Desmond Tutu, Beyers Naudé and Frank Chikane. It is a member of the Fellowship of Christian Councils in Southern Africa.\n\nThe South African Council of Churches exists to lead common Christian action that works for moral witness in South Africa, addressing issues of justice, national reconciliation, integrity or creation, eradication of poverty, and contributing towards the empowerment of all those who are spiritually, socially and economically marginalised. [(c) SACC]\n\nThe SACC is governed by a national conference that meets once every three years. The resolutions of the conference are implemented by a central committee that meets annually. The committee is chaired by either the president or a vice-president of the Council. An executive committee is elected by the central committee and meets at least four times a year. The officers of the Council include a president, vice-presidents, and a general secretary who acts as executive officer.\n\n[dates need verification]\n\n[dates need verification]\nBishop Ziphozihle Siwa ( Methodist Church of Southern Africa) 2014+ Current\n\nThe SACC headquarters at Khotso House in Johannesburg were destroyed by a bomb on August 31, 1988. The Truth and Reconciliation Commission later found that State President PW Botha had personally ordered the bombing. Former Minister of Law and Order Adriaan Vlok and several senior policemen applied for and were granted amnesty for the bombing. The bombing party was directed by Eugene de Kock, then commander at Vlakplaas, a secret facility of the security branch of the South African Police force.\n\nDuring the anti-apartheid struggle, the SACC was in alliance with liberation movements such as the African National Congress (ANC). In recent times, there have been claims that the ANC has marginalised the Council in favour of Pastor Ray McCauley's National Interfaith Leadership Council which the SACC was excluded from and that there are also tensions between the two organisations. The SACC has also been extremely critical of the ANC for its role in the September 2009 militia attacks on Kennedy Road informal settlement calling for an independent investigation into police inaction and the release of community leaders associated with Abahlali baseMjondolo and the Kennedy Road Development Committee.\n\n\n", "id": "7737988", "categories": ["Organisations based in Johannesburg", "Opposition to apartheid in South Africa", "National councils of churches"], "title": "South African Council of Churches"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738006", "text": "Healdtown Comprehensive School\n\nHealdtown Comprehensive School is a Methodist school located near Fort Beaufort, Eastern Cape Province, South Africa. It was established in 1855 and assuming its current name in 1994, having been known for most of its history as simply \"Healdtown\". The founder was John Ayliff, a Wesleyan Methodist missionary from England. It was closed in 1865 and reopened in 1867 as a center for theological and teacher training. In 1880 the theological school was moved to another place, and the Teacher Training School remained. Girls were admitted to study there in 1898. In 1925 a high school course was added. The government took over the school in 1956 due to the Bantu Education Act of 1953. The hostels remained in the hands of the Methodist Church. 761 students used the hostels in 1967.\n\nProminent former pupils include\n\n", "id": "7738006", "categories": ["1855 establishments in the Cape Colony", "Educational institutions established in 1855", "Schools in the Eastern Cape"], "title": "Healdtown Comprehensive School"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738020", "text": "Shire of Wagin\n\nThe Shire of Wagin is a local government area in the Wheatbelt region of Western Australia, about southeast of the state capital, Perth. The Shire covers an area of about , and its seat of government is the town of Wagin.\n\nThe Arthur Road District was created in 1887, and was renamed Wagin in 1905. In July 1906 a separate Municipality of Wagin was created to serve the town, while the Road District continued to serve the surrounding area. In 1961 the Municipality was abolished, and a new Town Ward was created within the district.\n\nOn 1 July 1961, it became a Shire under the \"Local Government Act 1960\".\n\nThe shire was divided into wards until 1991, but wards were abolished and councillors now sit at large. there were 11 councillors.\n\n\n", "id": "7738020", "categories": [], "title": "Shire of Wagin"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738022", "text": "Hans Merensky\n\nHans Merensky (16 March 1871 in Botshabelo – 21 October 1952 on his farm Westfalia near Duiwelskloof) was a South African geologist, prospector, scientist, conservationist and philanthropist. He discovered the rich deposit of alluvial diamonds at Alexander Bay in Namaqualand, vast platinum and chrome reefs at Lydenburg, Rustenburg and Potgietersrus, which led to some of the largest platinum mines in the world, phosphates and copper at Phalaborwa in the Transvaal lowveld, gold in the Free State and the world’s biggest chrome deposit at Jagdlust near Pietersburg.\n\nHans Merensky was born on 16 March 1871 at Berlin Missionary Society station Botshabelo, near Middelburg in Transvaal, where his father, Alexander Merensky (1837–1918), a noted ethnographer and author, was the resident missionary. Keenly interested in minerals and enjoying outdoor living, he studied mining geology after finishing his schooling in Germany. He was awarded a doctorate in mining geology from the University of Charlottenburg in Berlin. He completed his practical training in coal mines in the Saarland and in Silesia and began work for the Department of Mines in East Prussia. In 1904 he came to South Africa to conduct some geological surveys in the Transvaal. He discovered tin near Pretoria and reported to the Premier Diamond Mine regarding possible mining prospects. He worked for several mining companies and Friedlaender & Co. sent him to Madagascar to investigate a reported discovery of gold, which turned out to be false. He resigned from his job in Germany and moved to Johannesburg where he became a successful consulting geologist.\n\nIn 1909 he visited the diamond fields of South West Africa and controversially predicted that diamonds would be found along the West coast and south of the Orange River. In 1913 Merensky lost his entire fortune due to the Depression, and was interned at a camp near Pietermaritzburg. During these financially difficult years he enjoyed the support of Sir George Albu.\n\nIn 1924 he followed up the discovery of alluvial platinum by A F Lombard on his farm in Lydenburg and discovered its source in the Bushveld Igneous Complex which set him on the road to financial recovery. This deposit came eventually to be known as the Merensky Reef, which contains 75 per cent of the world's known platinum resources.\n\nIn 1926 diamonds were found at Alexander Bay and Merensky received £1,250,000 for his prospector's share. He established the Phosphate Development Corporation Ltd. - FOSKOR - to manage the extraction of phosphates at Phalaborwa.\n\nIn his final years he lived unostentatiously on his farm Westfalia near Duiwelskloof in Transvaal, where he received local celebrities and foreign dignitaries. He died on 21 October 1952.\nMerensky allotted the larger part of his fortune to the Hans Merensky Trust to ensure that his projects in agriculture, horticulture and forestry operations on the Westphalia Estate would be continued after his death. He established the Hans Merensky Library at the University of Pretoria.\n\nIn 2004, Martin Enlen directed a German language movie called Platinum based on Hans Merensky’s life. Both overdubbed and subtitled English versions of this movie exist.\n\nThe Hans Merensky Wilderness, a protected area in Limpopo, and Merensky High School, an agricultural and academic public school on a farm near Tzaneen, are named after him.\n", "id": "7738022", "categories": ["South African expatriates in Germany", "South African Republic people", "People from Steve Tshwete Local Municipality", "1952 deaths", "South African academics", "German geologists", "1871 births", "South African geologists", "South African people of German descent"], "title": "Hans Merensky"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738023", "text": "Phosphatidylmyo-inositol mannosides\n\nPhosphatidylmyo-inositol Mannosides (PIMs) are a family of glycolipids found in the cell wall of \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\". PIMs influence the interaction of the immune system with \"M. tuberculosis\", and mice that develop antibodies for this family of glycolipids are better at sustaining or defeating a \"M. tuberculosis\" infection. Thus, PIMs are important glycolipids associated with \"M. tuberculosis\", but are also likely involved with the process by which \"M. tuberculosis\" subverts the immune system.\n", "id": "7738023", "categories": ["Bacteriology"], "title": "Phosphatidylmyo-inositol mannosides"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738033", "text": "Acrelândia\n\nAcrelândia is a municipality located in the easternmost portion of the Brazilian state of Acre. Its population is 8,695 and its area is 1,575 km², which makes it the smallest municipality in that state.\n", "id": "7738033", "categories": ["Populated places established in 1992", "Municipalities in Acre (state)"], "title": "Acrelândia"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738034", "text": "Victoria Park, Western Australia\n\nVictoria Park is an inner south eastern suburb of Perth, Western Australia. Its local government area is the Town of Victoria Park.\n\nVictoria Park is the eastern gateway to Perth's central business district, being the intersection of the three original eastern arterial roads: Albany Highway, Canning Highway, Great Eastern Highway, and the Causeway Bridge. The Causeway connects Victoria Park to the city, located 3 km to the northwest.\n\nThe suburb of Victoria Park derives its name from \"Victoria Park Estate\", a development that took place there in the 1890s. It is believed the name was given to the estate because Queen Victoria was still on the throne, although it may be connected with Victoria Park in Melbourne.\n\nThe area was originally the largest portion of a grant of to John Butler in 1831. Progress and development was initially very slow, but a few houses were built around coach stops on the Albany Road, initially constructed from hand-sawn wooden logs. The road was rebuilt in the early 1860s by convicts. At this time the entire area from Canning Bridge to Belmont was simply known as \"Canning\".\n\nIn 1886, a settlement started at \"2 Mile Spring\", opposite the present location of the Broken Hill Hotel, and a year later, subdivision commenced. The building of the railway to Pinjarra in 1893 had a huge effect on the area - within a few years, a state school was built on Cargill Street and by 1898, the population had reached 1,197.\n\nThe following year, Broken Hill Hotel and the Town Hall were constructed, serving as both a community centre and as the council office for the Victoria Park Municipality (until amalgamation with the City of Perth in 1917). The Town Hall was later demolished, while the Broken Hill Hotel is listed by the National Trust.\n\nA tram service commenced in 1905, and by 1917 the population had reached 5,000, and had at their disposal electric lighting, a public library (1903), police station (1906), post office (1912), bowling club (1913) and two hotels, as well as several banks and numerous commercial enterprises and factories. After World War I, Albany Highway was bitumenised, and the commercial centre on either side of the road grew to rival centres in more established areas.\n\nWhile by 1937 considered a \"working man's district\", by the mid-1970s the area had a higher-than-average elderly population according to ABS statistics, and the development of townhouses in place of some of the original dwellings saw increasing gentrification as city workers settled in areas closer to the Perth CBD. In 1993, Burswood was approved as a name for the northeastern part of Victoria Park, and split away from it.\n\nThe Causeway Bridge was the first major bridge engineering project in or about Perth, and involved augmenting the Heirisson mudflats into a proper island. The mudflats were at that time an important resource for the Noongar Indigenous Australians. The current bridge is the \"third edition\":\n\nVictoria Park is bounded by the Swan River to the northwest, Shepperton Road, Harper Street and the Armadale railway to the northeast, Miller and Kent Streets to the southeast and a line 61 m southwest of Berwick Street to the southwest. The suburb is mostly residential, although Albany Highway is a commercial \"high street\" and a number of parks can be found - most notably McCallum Park on the river, Raphael Park and the smaller Read Park and Hawthorne Park.\n\nAt the ABS 2001 census, Victoria Park had a population of 6,980 people living in 3,998 dwellings. Over a quarter of Victoria Park's residents live in unit or apartment blocks. The ABS identified property and business services and retail as the primary occupations, followed by health, manufacturing, hospitality and education. 15.2% of those surveyed were from East or South-East Asia, while sizable Italian and South Asian minorities were reported.\n\nVictoria Park is a major transit route, being the intersection point of the Canning Highway to South Perth, Applecross and Fremantle; the Great Eastern Highway to Belmont and Perth Airport; the Albany Highway to Cannington and Armadale; and The Causeway to Perth's CBD. Albany Highway runs through the suburb as a main shopping street.\n\nVictoria Park is served by the Victoria Park train station on its northeastern corner, and by the Victoria Park bus station on the eastern end of The Causeway. All services are operated by the Public Transport Authority.\n\nVictoria Park's only booth, Homestead Seniors Centre, is marginal at federal level, and supports the Australian Labor Party at state elections. Nearby booths in East Victoria Park consistently support the Australian Labor Party at both levels of government.\n\n\n", "id": "7738034", "categories": [], "title": "Victoria Park, Western Australia"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738036", "text": "1739 English cricket season\n\nThe 1739 English cricket season was the 43rd cricket season since the earliest recorded eleven-aside match was played. Details have survived of seven matches. \n\nThe season was the first time that a Rest of England side played, formed specifically to take on Kent which appears to have had the game's strongest county team.\n\nRecords have survived of seven matches:\n\nGenerally agreed to be the \"first modern representation of cricket\", a series of engravings, \"The Game of Cricket\", was made by Hubert-François Gravelot. The six engravings show groups of children paying cricket, with a wicket of the \"low stool\" shape, probably wide by tall, with two stumps and a single bail. The engravings were used on porcelain. Gravelot helped to establish the French Rococo style in English publishing and was one of the most celebrated illustrators of the time.\n\n1739 was the last year in which cricket was played on Lamb's Conduit Field. Thomas Coram's Foundling Hospital was established there in 1739.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7738036", "categories": ["1739 in English cricket"], "title": "1739 English cricket season"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738037", "text": "Geoff Snider\n\nGeoff Snider (born 2 April 1981) is a Canadian lacrosse player from Calgary, Alberta. He is known as a dominant faceoff man and a very physical player.He no longer plays after retirement this year.\n\nGrowing up, Snider played for the Calgary Hornets in the CDLA (Calgary District Lacrosse Association) Snider's Junior lacrosse career began with the Burnaby Lakers of the British Columbia Junior A Lacrosse League. In 1998, 2000 and 2002, he helped the Lakers win the Minto Cup as Canada's champion junior men's lacrosse team. He continues to play with the Senior \"A\" Coquitlam Adanacs in the Western Lacrosse Association, leading them to win the 2007 WLA championship.\n\nSnider honed his physical game in the summer box lacrosse seasons and in junior hockey. With the a junior ice hockey Calgary Canucks, of the Alberta Junior Hockey League, Snider racked up 415 penalty minutes during the 2001–02 season. In lacrosse he has developed a reputation as being one of lacrosse's top fighters.\n\nSnider attended the University of Denver. In 2006, with the Pioneers he was named a third-team All-American. His 194 recorded groundballs as a senior holds the record for a single season groundballs in NCAA lacrosse. In addition he holds the standard for highest average groundballs per game in a season with 11.41.\n\nSnider was drafted by the Philadelphia Wings of the National Lacrosse League in the first round (fourth overall) of the 2006 NLL Entry Draft. \nSnider made an immediate impact on the league and was named the NLL's January Rookie of the Month. Snider scored 13 points (6G, 7A), collected 53 loose balls and won 53 of 79 face-off attempts in five games during his first month of action in the league. He was also the only rookie voted onto the 2007 All-Star team, and won the Accuracy challenge in the All-Star game Skills Competition. After the season, Snider was named to the 2007 All-Rookie team.\n\nOn 26 January 2008, Snider put his name in the record books again when he won the opening face-off in a game against the Buffalo Bandits and scored :05 seconds into the game. This goal is the league record for fastest goal to start a game.\n\nIn the 2008 season, Snider was named to the All-Star team, and was named game MVP after scoring three goals, recording 28 loose balls, and winning 31 out of 38 face-offs. He set league records in loose balls (244), faceoffs won (318), and penalty minutes (103), and fell just short of tying his own faceoff winning percentage record of 75%, winning 73.8% of his faceoffs.\n\nDuring the 2009 NLL season, he was named a starter to the All-Star Game but was unable to play due to injury when he suffered a tracheal fracture (windpipe) in a game against the Edmonton Rush. Snider was also named to the 2012 All-Star game and scored 4 goals, added 2 assists, and won 22 of 26 faceoffs. Snider was named game MVP.\n\nSnider was drafted by the Denver Outlaws of Major League Lacrosse in the second round of the MLL Collegiate Draft. During the 2007 MLL season, Snider played in the MLL All-Star Game representing the Western Conference. Snider has participated in two MLL championships. In 2008 with the Denver Outlaws, and in 2009 with the champion Toronto Nationals.\n\nIn 2012 he was traded to the Charlotte Hounds where he helped lead the team to its first playoff and championship appearance.\n\nIn December 2014 he was traded by the Charlotte Hounds to the Denver Outlaws for midfielder Terry Kimener.\n\nOn 30 June 2009 the Peterborough Lakers of Major Series Lacrosse announced they signed Snider. He played his first game as a Laker on 1 July and made his Peterborough debut on 2 July.\n\nIn international competition, Snider won the tournament MVP award at the 2006 World Lacrosse Championship, where he dominated face-offs helping the Canadian National Men's Lacrosse team win their first World Championship win since 1978.\n\nReference:\n", "id": "7738037", "categories": ["Philadelphia Wings players", "College men's lacrosse players in the United States", "1981 births", "Living people", "Major League Lacrosse players", "Sportspeople from Calgary", "Canadian lacrosse players", "National Lacrosse League All-Stars", "Toronto Nationals players"], "title": "Geoff Snider"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738039", "text": "Ayabie\n\nAyabie was formed in the early spring of 2004 by ex-Hinawana members Ryōhei, Takehito, and Intetsu with Aoi (ex-MASK, ex-Cynical Biscuit). On May 8, 2004, Ayabie held their first solo concert at the Takadanobaba AREA. Their first single, \"Heien No Ato, Ame\", was distributed at this live. Following this release was their next single, \"Romancer\", which was limited to 1000 copies,\n\nAyabie's debut album was released on March 21, 2005, entitled \"Ayabie Sokukan Ongenshū\". It includes a bonus DVD which contains their previously recorded PVs. The group, which started with only support drummers, finally had a permanent drummer when Kenzo joined later that year. In June 2006, Ayabie toured Europe for the first time. In August, Ryōhei left the band permanently, due to his disagreement of the band's future. After his departure, he started his own new band, \"Megamasso\". Yumehito became the newest member of Ayabie 3 months later. The band adjusted to the change by splitting song writing duties among the band members, with Yumehito writing most of the band's music. In 2007, Ayabie returned to Europe again and released the mini-album \"Ecumenical\" along with many singles. Ayabie toured in the US for the first time in June 2008, as part of their world tour.\n\nAt the conclusion of their \"Mikazuki no Kiseki\" Tour on September 27, 2008, Ayabie announced that as of Spring 2009 they would be going major. Their first major label release, the single \"Aitakute\", was issued on 27 May 2009. As saying goodbye to their indies theme, they released a DVD named \"The 7th colour ~Indies last tour FINAL~\"; this indicates that they were then going major and going into their new major theme. Ayabie released their first major album '彩- irodori' on 27 January 2010.\n\nOn August 7, 2010, it was announced that Takehito, Intetsu, Kenzo and Yumehito had left Ayabie to form a new band, \"AYABIE\". They were signed to the major company TOY'S FACTORY. Aoi remained in Tokuma Japan Communications as a solo artist, known as \"Aoi from ayabie\". He also worked together with Ryohei from Megamasso as \"Aoi & Ryohei\". AYABIE performed at A-Kon 2011.\n\nOn May 21, 2012, Aoi started a new project called 168 -one sixty eight- with his debut single being \"Setsugekka.\" The support members of 168's debut live were Yuki (Aucifer), Sebastian (Bull Zeichen 88), and Naoki (ex-Kagrra).\n\nOn February 24, 2013, Taito joined AYABIE as their keyboardist.His first appearance with the band was at Shibuya O-EAST, which marked the end of AYABIE's live hiatus they went on half a year before. On June 14, 2013, Kenzo announced his departure from AYABIE. He later started his own solo project called BVCCI HAYNES. On December 10, 2013, Yumehito and Intetsu both withdrew from AYABIE. Takehito and Taito continued band activities until July 31, 2015 in which Taito withdrew from the band as well. Takehito says he will make an announcement regarding AYABIE's future later this year.\n\nYumehito is currently the guitarist of Belle and has formed Robin's Peace BK with Yuki (Rice, Raphael).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7738039", "categories": ["Japanese pop rock music groups", "Visual kei musical groups", "Japanese rock music groups"], "title": "Ayabie"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738046", "text": "August Man\n\nAugustMan is a men's luxury lifestyle publication, based in Singapore, which launched in September 2006. The magazine's fields of focus include fashion, design, travel, art, architecture, food, sports, health, business, books, music, film, motoring and watches. Actors Ken Watanabe, Francis Ng and Daniel Dae Kim, Japanese soccer star Hidetoshi Nakata, and chef/author/TV presenter Anthony Bourdain featured on AugustMan's cover. The magazine also has franchises in Malaysia and Indonesia.\n\nAugustMan is published by Burda Singapore Pte Ltd, a subsidiary of German media conglomerate Hubert Burda Media.\n", "id": "7738046", "categories": ["Magazines established in 2006", "2006 establishments in Singapore", "Singaporean men's magazines", "Singaporean monthly magazines"], "title": "August Man"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738048", "text": "Green tag\n\nGreen tag may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7738048", "categories": [], "title": "Green tag"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738056", "text": "Assis Brasil\n\nAssis Brasil is a municipality located in the south of the Brazilian state of Acre. Its population is 5351 (as of 2007) and its area is .\n\nThe municipality contains part of the Rio Acre Ecological Station.\nIt also contains part of the Chico Mendes Extractive Reserve, a sustainable use environmental unit created in 1990.\n\nThe municipality was named after Joaquim Francisco de Assis Brasil, a diplomat who was involved in the transference of Acre from Bolivian to Brazilian control after the Acre War. \n\n", "id": "7738056", "categories": ["Municipalities in Acre (state)"], "title": "Assis Brasil"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738070", "text": "Meir ben Ezekiel ibn Gabbai\n\nMeir ben Ezekiel ibn Gabbai () was a Kabbalist born in Spain toward the end of 1480, and living probably in the East.\n\nHe complained in his twenty-seventh year that he had to work hard to support himself and his family (see end of \"Tola'at Ya'aḳob\"). He was an enthusiastic cabalist, noted for thorough mastery of the whole cabalistic lore, the most important points of which he, as far as can be judged now, was the first of his generation to treat systematically. He must be regarded, therefore, as the precursor of Moshe Cordovero and Isaac Luria. His first work, completed in 1507 and held in high regard, was Tola'at Ya'aḳob, a cabalistic exposition of the prayer ritual. His chief work, which he finished December 22, 1531, after having spent eight years on it, was Avodat Hakodesh, in which he expounds in detail his cabalistic system, making a close study of Maimonides in order the better to refute him. In 1539 he wrote an exposition and defense of the Sefirot under the title \"Derek Emunah,\" in answer to his pupil Joseph ha-Levi, who had questioned him in regard to his doctrine of the Sefirot, Gabbai basing his work on Azriel of Gerona's \"Perush 'Eser Sefirot.\"\n\nGabbai regarded the Zohar as the canonical book of the Kabbala. His system is tinged with panentheism. God Himself, as the first cause of all causes, can neither be conceived nor cognized, and can not even be mentioned; the name \"En Sof\" (Infinite) is a mere makeshift. Even the Keter Elyon, the first Sefirah, can not be conceived or imagined; it is coeternal with the En Sof, although only its effect; it is what is called in Scripture \"His Name.\" By means of it the other sefirot emanated from God, being the various manifestations through which the Godhead makes Himself cognizable. To them the prayers are addressed, and they are intended in the different designations of God, whose relation to them is the same as that of the soul to the body.\n\nThe other emanations are the seven \"hekalot,\" which proceed from the sefirot, and represent in a way the feminine world as contrasted with the masculine world of the sefirot; they are the real vessels of the further development of the world. This emanation of the world from God constitutes the \"glory of God.\" The consciousness of dependence on God, with the striving toward Him in order to be united and become one with Him, and thereby to acknowledge His unity and effect its realization, is the \"yiḥud,\" \"the conscious union with God,\" which is the final aim of the world. Man, a reflection of the highest \"hekal,\" unites in his soul the rays of all the sefirot, and in himself in general as microcosm all the basic elements of being. His soul therefore is in connection with the upper world, which it is able to influence and stimulate by its actions and aspirations; for everything that happens in this world reaches in wave-like circles to the uppermost regions. By recognizing and fulfilling the religious and moral precepts man advances the harmony and union of the various grades of creatures, and succeeds in performing his task in life—the bringing about of the \"yiḥud.\"\n\nGabbai's son Ḥayyim was also a cabalist: and his son-in-law Senior ben Judah Falcon published Gabbai's first two books after his death, the \"Tola'at Ya'aḳob\" with the aid of Abraham Reyna at Constantinople in 1560, and \"Avodat Hakodesh\" at Venice in 1567.\n\n", "id": "7738070", "categories": ["Spanish rabbis", "16th-century rabbis", "1480 births", "16th-century deaths"], "title": "Meir ben Ezekiel ibn Gabbai"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738075", "text": "Bujari\n\nBujari is a municipality located in the northeast of the Brazilian state of Acre (state)\n", "id": "7738075", "categories": ["Municipalities in Acre (state)"], "title": "Bujari"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738077", "text": "Healdtown\n\nHealdtown is a small town located 10 km north-east of Fort Beaufort in the Eastern Cape province of South Africa. It is situated in Raymond Mhlaba Municipality in Amathole District in an area that was formerly part of the Ciskei. Nelson Mandela completed his schooling in Matric here.\n\nWesleyan Methodist mission station 10 km north-east of Fort Beaufort and 15 km north-west of Alice. Established in 1853 by minister John Ayliff and named after the treasurer of the Wesleyan Methodist Missionary Society, James Heald, who had contributed towards a training institution for teachers, founded there in 1867.\n", "id": "7738077", "categories": ["Populated places in the Raymond Mhlaba Local Municipality"], "title": "Healdtown"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738095", "text": "Claude Nicolas Ledoux\n\nClaude-Nicolas Ledoux (21 March 1736 – 18 November 1806) was one of the earliest exponents of French Neoclassical architecture. He used his knowledge of architectural theory to design not only domestic architecture but also town planning; as a consequence of his visionary plan for the Ideal City of Chaux, he became known as a utopian. His greatest works were funded by the French monarchy and came to be perceived as symbols of the Ancien Régime rather than Utopia. The French Revolution hampered his career; much of his work was destroyed in the nineteenth century. In 1804, he published a collection of his designs under the title \"L'Architecture considérée sous le rapport de l'art, des mœurs et de la législation\" (Architecture considered in relation to art, morals, and legislation). In this book he took the opportunity of revising his earlier designs, making them more rigorously neoclassical and up to date. This revision has distorted an accurate assessment of his role in the evolution of Neoclassical architecture. His most ambitious work was the uncompleted Royal Saltworks at Arc-et-Senans, an idealistic and visionary town showing many examples of \"architecture parlante\". Conversely his works and commissions also included the more mundane and everyday architecture such as approximately sixty elaborate tollgates around Paris in the Wall of the General Tax Farm.\n\nLedoux was born in 1736 in Dormans-sur-Marne, the son of a modest merchant from Champagne. At an early age his mother, Francoise Domino, and godmother, Francoise Piloy, encouraged him to develop his drawing skills. Later the Abbey of Sassenage funded his studies in Paris (1749–1753) at the Collège de Beauvais, where he followed a course in Classics. On leaving the Collège, age 17, he took employment as an engraver but four years later he began to study architecture under the tutelage of Jacques-François Blondel, for whom he maintained a lifelong respect.\n\nHe then trained under Pierre Contant d'Ivry, and also made the acquaintance of Jean-Michel Chevotet. These two eminent Parisian architects designed in both the restrained French Rococo manner, known as the \"Louis XV style\" and in the \"\"Goût grec\"\" (literally \"Greek taste\") phase of early Neoclassicism. However, under the tutelage of Contant d'Ivry and Chevotet, Ledoux was also introduced to Classical architecture, in particular the temples of Paestum, which, along with the works of Palladio, were to influence him greatly.\n\nThe two master architects introduced Ledoux to their affluent clientele. One of Ledoux's first patrons was the Baron Crozat de Thiers, an immensely wealthy connoisseur who commissioned him to remodel part of his palatial town house in the Place Vendôme. Another client obtained through the auspices of his teachers was Président Hocquart de Montfermeil and his sister, Mme de Montesquiou.\n\nIn 1762, the young Ledoux was commissioned to redecorate the Café Godeau, in the rue Saint-Honoré. The result was an interior of \"trompe l'oeil\" and mirrors. Pilasters painted on the walls were interspersed with alternating Pier glasses and panels painted with trophies of helmets and weaponry, all executed in bold detail. In 1969 this interior was moved to the Musée Carnavalet.\n\nThe following year the Marquis de Montesquiou-Fézensac commissioned Ledoux to redesign the old hilltop château on his estate at Mauperthuis. Ledoux rebuilt the château and created new gardens, replete with fountains supplied by an aqueduct. In addition in the gardens and park he built an orangery, a pheasantry and vast \"dépendances\" of which little remains today.\n\nIn 1764, he designed for Président Hocquart, a Palladian house on the Chaussée d'Antin using the colossal order. Ledoux would frequently employ this motif that was condemned by the strict French tradition, which embraced the principle of superimposing the classic column motifs on each floor, rising from simplest to the most complex: Tuscan, Doric, Ionic, Corinthian, etc.\n\nOn 26 July 1764, in the Saint-Eustache Church, Paris, Ledoux married Marie Bureau, the daughter of a court musician. A friend from Champagne, Joseph Marin Masson de Courcelles, found him a position as the architect for the Water and Forestry Department. Here between 1764 and 1770 he worked on the renovation and designs of churches, bridges, wells, fountains and schools, in Tonnerrois, Sénonais and Bassigny.\n\nAmong the still extant works from this period are the bridge of Marac, the Prégibert bridge in Rolampont, the churches of Fouvent-le-Haut, Roche-et-Raucourt, Rolampont, the nave and portal of Cruzy-le-Châtel, and the quire of Saint-Etienne d'Auxerre.\n\nIn 1766 Ledoux began designing the Hôtel d'Hallwyll (Le Marais, Paris), a building that, according to the Dijon architect Jacques Cellerier, received widespread praise and attracted new patrons to the architect. The owner Franz-Joseph d'Hallwyll (a Swiss colonel) and his wife, Marie-Thérèse Demidorge, were anxious to ensure work was executed economically. Therefore, Ledoux had to reuse portions of the existing buildings, the former Hôtel de Bouligneux. He had envisaged two colonnades in the Doric order leading to a nymphaeum decorated with urns at the foot of the garden. However, the limitations of the site made this impossible, so Ledoux resorted to \"trompe l'oeil\" painting a colonnade on the blind wall of the neighboring convent, thus extending the perspective.\n\nThe recognition given to the relatively modest Hôtel d'Hallwyll led in 1767 to a more prestigious commission, the Hôtel d'Uzès, for François Emmanuel de Crussol on the rue Montmartre. There too, Ledoux preserved the structure of an earlier building. Today the panelling from the salon, an early example of the neoclassical style, largely carved by Joseph Métivier and Jean-Baptist Boiston to the designs of Ledoux, is preserved in the Carnavalet Museum, Paris.\n\nLedoux designed the Château de Bénouville in Calvados (1768–1769) for the Marquis de Livry. With its simple, almost severe, facade of four stories, broken by a prostyle portico, the Château de Bénouville, while not one of Ledoux's most inventive plans, is notable for the unusual placement of the main staircase at the center of the garden facade, a position normally taken by the main salon.\n\nLedoux travelled to England in the years 1769-1771. There he became familiar with the Palladian style of architecture. Palladio, an influential Renaissance architect, was famous for his Italian villas (e.g., the Villa Rotunda). From this point Ledoux worked often in the Palladian style, usually employing a cubic design broken by a prostyle portico which gave an air of importance even to a small structure. In this genre, he built, in 1770, a house for Marie Madeleine Guimard in the Chaussée d'Antin; and following that commission the house of Mlle Saint-Germain, in the Rue Saint-Lazare, the house of Attilly in the suburb of Poissonnière, a house for the poet Jean François de Saint-Lambert in Eaubonne, and most notably the Music Pavilion constructed between 1770 and 1771 at the Château de Louveciennes for the King's mistress Madame du Barry, whose patronage and influence were to be of use to Ledoux in later years.\n\nHis reputation established, Ledoux commenced a period of yet more ambitious designs. The Hôtel de Montmorency on the Chaussée d'Antin dates from this period. It has a principal façade in the Ionic order above a rustic ground floor. Statues of illustrious members of the Montmorency family decorate the roof. However, the depletion of the Montmorency fortune meant that Ledoux was required to execute the project with some parsimony.\n\nLedoux was interested in the work of the Royal Administrations Department and at times considered working for them, even though the positions they offered were often on the borderline between architect and engineer. Through this interest in civic and municipal architecture and due, in no small part, to the notorious influence of Madame du Barry, Ledoux was commissioned with the modernization of the \"Salines de l'Est\" (Eastern Saltworks). The modernization was initiated following the construction of the Burgundy Canal. In 1771 Ledoux was promoted to Inspector of the saltworks in Franche-Comté, a title he held until 1790, with the position yielding him an annual salary of 6000 livres.\n\nIn the 18th century salt was an essential and valuable commodity. The unpopular salt tax, known as the \"gabelle\", was collected by the \"Ferme Générale\". Salt served as a valuable source of income for the French king. In Franche-Comté, due to subterranean seams of halite, salt was extracted from saline wells by vaporizing in wood-fuelled furnaces.\n\nIn Salins-les-Bains or in Montmorot, the saltworks' boilers were built close to the wells, and the wood was brought from the adjacent forests. Contrary to what the French government wanted, Ledoux placed the saltworks near the woods as opposed to the source of the salt water. He logically reasoned that it would be easier to transport water than wood. Close to the first of these sites, the \"Fermiers Généraux\" decided to explore a more mechanized and efficient method of extraction, by constructing a purpose-built factory near the forest of Chaux, in the Val d'Amour. The saline water was to be brought to the factory by a newly constructed canal.\n\nThe design, which received royal approval, of the Royal Saltworks at Arc-et-Senans, or \"Salines de Chaux\", is considered Ledoux's masterpiece. The initial building work was conceived as the first phase of a large and grandiose scheme for a new ideal city. The first (and, as things were to turn out, only) stage of building was constructed between 1775 and 1778. Entrance is through a massive Doric portico, inspired by the temples at Paestum. The alliance of the columns is an archetypal motif of neoclassicism. Inside, a cavernous hall gives the impression of entering an actual salt mine, decorated with concrete ornamentation representing the elementary forces of nature and the organizing genius of Man, a reflection of the views of the relationship between civilization and nature endorsed by such eighteenth-century philosophers as Jean-Jacques Rousseau.\n\nThe entrance building opens into a vast semicircular open air space that is surrounded by ten buildings, which are arranged on the arc of a semicircle. On the arc is the cooper's forge, the forging mill and two bothies for the workers. On the straight diameter are the workshops for the extraction of salt alternating with administrative buildings. At the centre is the house of the director (illustrated), which originally also contained a chapel.\n\nThe significance of this plan is twofold: the circle, a perfect figure, evokes the harmony of the ideal city and theoretically encloses a place of harmony for common work, but it recalls also contemporary theories of organization and of official surveillance, particularly the Panopticon of Jeremy Bentham. \n\nThe saltworks entered a painful phase of industrial production and marginal profit, because of competition with the salt-water marshes. After some not very profitable trials, it closed indefinitely in 1790 during the national instability caused by the French Revolution. Thus the dream of success for a factory, conceived at the same time as a royal residence and a new city, ended.\n\nFor a brief period in the 1920s the salt works were reused but eventually closed due to competition. For the following decades, the salt works lay in decay until they were named a UNESCO world heritage site and refurbished as a local cultural center.\n\nIn 1784 Ledoux was the architect selected to design a theatre at Besançon, Franche-Comté. The exterior of the building was designed as a severe Palladian cube, adorned only by an almost Grecian neoclassical portico of six Ionic columns. However, if the neoclassical hints to the exterior was regarded as modern then the interior was a revolution – venues for public entertainment were rare in the French provinces, and where they did exist it was traditional that only the nobles had seating, while those of less exulted rank had stood. Ledoux, realizing this was not only inconvenient but elitist planned the theatre at Besançon on more egalitarian lines with seating for all but in some quarters such a plan was seen as radical if not revolutionary, the aristocracy had no wish to be seated alongside commoners. However Ledoux found an ally in the Intendant of Franche-Comté, Charles André de la Coré, an enlightened man, he consented to follow this reforming plan. Even so, it was decided that the social classes would still be segregated thus while the theatre of was the first to have a ground floor amphitheatre furnished with seats for the ordinary paying public. Above them was a raised terrace or balcony for state employers. Directly above was the first tier of boxes reserved for the aristocracy, and above this a tier of smaller boxes occupied by the middle-class the second. Thus Ledoux achieved his ambition that the theatre could at the same time be a place of social communion and shared entertainment while still maintaining a strict hierarchy of the classes.\n\nThe seating was not the only innovation at the theatre. With the aid of the machinist Dart de Bosco Ledoux expanded the wings and back stage scenery apparatus, giving it greater depth than was customary, and many other modern improvements. Besançon was the first theatre to screen the musicians in an orchestra pit. The building was widely acclaimed on its opening in 1784 but when Ledoux submitted plans for the proposed new theatre in Marseilles but they were not accepted.\n\nIn 1784, Ledoux was chosen over Pierre-Adrien Pâris for the construction of the new town hall in Neufchâtel. This was followed by the spectacular project that he conceived for the Palais de Justice and the prison of Aix-en-Provence. This project, however, was to be beset by many difficulties. Trouble began in 1789 when construction was interrupted by the French Revolution, when only the ground floor walls had been completed \n\nLedoux was a Freemason Ledoux took part, with his friend William Beckford, in various masonic ceremonies at the \"Loge Féminine de la Candeur\" which met in the town house he had built for Mme d'Espinchal, on the Rue des Petites-Écuries.\n\nHe was well acquitted with the world of finance and those who inhabited it. He designed a large house and park for Praudeau de Chemilly, the treasurer of the \"Maréchaussées\", at Bourneville near Ferté-Milon. One of his more notable town houses was for the widow of the Genevan banker Thélusson. This classical mansion, a venue for Parisian high society, was situated at the heart of a large landscaped garden accessed from the Rue de Provence. The house had an immense porte-cochere in the form of a pillared triumphal arch. The circular central salon, had at its centre a colonnade which supported the ceiling.\n\nOn the Rue Saint-Georges, for the creole Hosten, Ledoux designed an ensemble of tenements for rental, designed in such a way they could in future be extended ad infinitum. In the Rue Saint-Lazare, around a commercial warehouse, he designed the gardens of Zephyr and Flora, which were illustrated by Hubert Robert.\n\nIn the process of his work in Franche-Comté, Ledoux had become an architect for the \"ferme générale\", for whom he built a salt storehouse in Compiègne and undertook to plan their vast headquarters on the rue du Bouloi in Paris.\n\nCharles Alexandre de Calonne, the Controller-General of Finances, obtained on an idea from the chemist and \"fermier général\" Antoine Lavoisier, of drawing a barrier around Paris to limit contraband and evasion of the \"octrois\", or internal customs duties: this notorious Wall of the Farmers-General was to have six towers (one every 4 kilometers) and to comprise sixty tax-collecting offices. Ledoux was charged to design these buildings, which he baptized pompously \"\"les Propylées de Paris\"\" and to which he wanted to give a character of solemnity and magnificence while putting into practice his ideas on the necessary links between form and function.\n\nTo cut short the protests of the Parisian population, the operation was carried out rapidly: fifty barriers to access were built between 1785 and 1788. Most were destroyed in the nineteenth century and very few remain today, of which those of La Villette and Place Denfert-Rochereau are the only ones that haven't been altered beyond recognition. In certain cases, the entry was framed with two identical buildings; in others, it consisted of a single building. The forms were archetypal: the rotunda (Heap, Reuilly); the rotunda surmounting a Greek cross (La Villette, Rapée); the cube with peristyle (Picpus); the Greek temple (Gentilly, Courcelles); the column (le Trône). At Place de l'Étoile, the buildings, flanked with columns alternating with cubic and cylindrical elements, evoked the House of the director at Arc-and-Senans; at the \"Bureau des Bonshommes\", an apse opened by a peristyle recalled the pavilion of Madame du Barry and the Hôtel de la Guimard. The order employed was generally Doric Greek. Ledoux also used multiple rustic embossings.\n\nThis audacious construction met with political criticism, as well as aesthetic criticism of the architect, accused by commentators such as Dulaure and Quatremère de Quincy of taking excessive freedoms with the ancient canons. Bachaumont denounced a \"\"monument d'esclavage et de despotisme\"\" (a \"monument to enslavement and despotism\"). In his \"Tableau de Paris\" (1783), Louis-Sébastien Mercier stigmatised \"\"les antres du fisc métamorphosés en palais à colonnes\"\" (\"the bastions of taxation metamorphosed into columned palaces\"), and exclamed, \"\"Ah! Monsieur Ledoux, vous êtes un terrible architecte!\"\"(Ah! Monsieur Ledoux, you are a terrible architect). Ledoux, rendered the object of scandal by these opinions, was relieved of his official functions in 1787 while Jacques Necker, succeeding Calonne, disavowed the entire enterprise.\n\nAt the same time, work on the law courts of Aix-en-Provence was suspended, and Ledoux was accused of embroiling the Treasury in ill-considered expenditure. When the Revolution broke out, his rich clientele emigrated or perished under the guillotine. He saw his career and his projects stopped while at the same time the first blows of the pickaxe began to ring on the already obsolete wall of the \"fermiers généraux\". As of June 1790, the \"Ferme générale\" had been able to install its employees in the buildings by Ledoux, but the \"octroi\" (granting) was abolished in May 1791, which rendered the facilities useless. A symbol of fiscal oppression, Ledoux, who had amassed a handsome fortune, was arrested and thrown in La Force Prison.\n\nHe still made a project for a school of agriculture for the duc de Duras, his companion in captivity. Perhaps the intervention of the painter Jacques-Louis David, son-in-law of the entrepreneur Pécoul, and considerably enriched in the collection of the \"octrois\", helped him avoid the guillotine. But he lost his favourite daughter whilst the other brought a lawsuit against him.\n\nLedoux, who was eventually released, ceased building and attempted to prepare the publication of his complete \"œuvre\". Since 1773, he had started to engrave his constructions and his projects but, because of the evolution of his style, he did not cease retouching his drawings, and the engravers constantly had to redo their boards. Ledoux evolved towards an architecture always more detailed and colossal, with vast walls that were increasingly smooth, and with increasingly rare openings. The differences between a drawing of the Pavillon de Louveciennes as it first was, made by the British architect Sir William Chambers and the engraving that was published in 1804 illustrate this process.\n\nDuring his imprisonment, Ledoux had started to write a text to accompany the engravings. Only the first volume appeared during his lifetime, in 1804, under the title \"L'Architecture considérée sous le rapport de l'art, des mœurs et de la législation\"(Architecture considered under the relation of art and legislation). It presented the theatre of Besançon, the saltworks of Arc-and-Senans and the town of Chaux.\n\nHe died in Paris in 1806.\n\nAround the time of the royal saltworks, Ledoux formalized his innovative design ideas for an urbanism and an architecture intended to improve society, of a \"Cité idéale\" charged with symbols and meanings. Along with Étienne-Louis Boullée and his project for the Cenotaph of Newton, he is considered a precursor to the utopians who would follow. Boullée and Ledoux were a specific influence on subsequent Greek Revival architects and especially Benjamin Henry Latrobe who carried through the style in the United States for public architecture with the intention that the spirit of the ancient Athenian democracy would be echoed by buildings serving the new democracy of the United States of America.\n\nAfter 1775 he presented Turgot with the first sketches of the town of Chaux, centered on the royal saltworks. The project, constantly perfected but never executed, was engraved beginning in 1780. The engravings, announced in 1784 and probably all designed by 1799, were finally published in 1804, as part of the first edition of his \"L'Architecture considerée\".\n\nAs a radical utopian of architecture, teaching at the École des Beaux-Arts, he created a singular architectonic order, a new column formed of alternating cylindrical and cubic stones superimposed for their plastic effect. In this period, taste was returning to the antique, to the distinction and the examination, of the taste for the \"rustic\" style.\n\n\nSome of his other \"visionary\" designs:\n\nIn 1804 was published a volume including the works from 1768 to 1789 : \"L'Architecture considérée sous le rapport de l'art, des mœurs et de la législation\".\n\n\n", "id": "7738095", "categories": ["Neoclassical architects", "French urban planners", "People from Marne (department)", "18th-century French architects", "1806 deaths", "Faculty of the École des Beaux-Arts", "1736 births", "Neoclassical architecture in France", "Holders of the office of fermier général"], "title": "Claude Nicolas Ledoux"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738108", "text": "Capixaba, Acre\n\nCapixaba is a municipality located in the southeast of the Brazilian state of Acre. Its population is 8,446 and its area is 1,713 km².\n\nThe municipality contains part of the Chico Mendes Extractive Reserve, a sustainable use environmental unit created in 1990.\n", "id": "7738108", "categories": ["Municipalities in Acre (state)"], "title": "Capixaba, Acre"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738130", "text": "Battle of Seattle (1856)\n\nThe Battle of Seattle was a January 26, 1856 attack by Native Americans upon Seattle, Washington. At the time, Seattle was a settlement in the Washington Territory that had recently named itself after Chief Seattle (Sealth), a leader of the Suquamish and Duwamish peoples of central Puget Sound.\n\nEuropean-American settlers were backed by artillery fire and supported by Marines from the United States Navy sloop-of-war \"Decatur\", anchored in Elliott Bay (Seattle's harbor, then called \"Duwam-sh Bay\"). They suffered two fatalities. It is not known if any of the Native American raiders died. The contemporary historian T. S. Phelps wrote that they later \"would admit\" to 28 dead and 80 wounded. The battle, part of the multi-year Puget Sound War or Yakima Wars (1855-1858), lasted a single day.\n\nThe Seattle settlement of the time was located roughly in the area of Seattle's Pioneer Square and its neighborhood. T. S. Phelps's memoir of the time described the settlement as:\n…on a point, or rather a small peninsula, projecting from the eastern shore, and about two miles (3 km) from the mouth of Duwam-sh River, debouching at the head of the bay. The northern part of this peninsula is connected with the mainland by a low neck of marshy ground, and about one-sixteenth of a mile from its southeastern extremity a firm, hard sand-pit nearly joined it to the adjacent shore, severed only by a narrow channel through which the surplus waters of an inclosed swamp escaped into the bay. The south and west sides rose abruptly from the beach, forming an embankment from three to fifteen feet high; and proceeding thence northerly, the ground undulated for an eighth of a mile, when it gradually sloped towards the swamp and neck.\n\nAt the intersection of the latter with the main, and overlooking the water, rose a mound about thirty feet above the level of the bay; and to the eastward through a depression in the hills, and passing the head of the swamp, was a broad Indian trail leading to Lake Duwam-sh [now Lake Washington<nowiki>]</nowiki>, distant two and a half miles.\n\nPhelps remarks that the tailings from Henry Yesler's recently erected mill were steadily filling in the marshy land at the north of the head or peninsula where the settlement was located. He described the arrangement of the troops arrayed in defense on the nights before the battle:\n\nThe divisions… nightly occupied the shore, vigilantly guarding the people as they slept, and resting only when the morning light released them from the apprehended attack. … [They] were distributed along the line of defense in the following order: The fourth, under Lieutenant Dallas, commencing at Southeast Point, extended along the bay shore to the sand-bar, where, meeting with the right of the first division, Lieutenant Drake, the latter continued the line facing the swamp to a point half-way from the bar to a hotel situated midway between the bar and Yesler's place, and there joined the second, under Lieutenant Hughes, whose left, resting on the hotel (\"see Mother Damnable\"), completed an unbroken line between the latter and Southeast Point, while the howitzer's crew, Lieutenant Morris, was stationed near Plummer's house, to sweep the bar and to operate wherever circumstances demanded. The third division, Lieutenant Phelps, occupied that portion of the neck lying between the swamp and mound east of Yesler's place, to secure the approaches leading from the lake, and the marines, under Sergeant Carbine, garrisoned the block-house.\n\nThe divisions, thus stationed, left a gap between the second and third, which the width and impassable nature of the swamp at this place rendered unnecessary to close, thereby enabling a portion of the town to be encompassed which otherwise would have been exposed.\n\nThe distance between the block-house and Southeast Point, following the sinuosities of the bay and swamp shores, was three-quarters of a mile, to be defended by ninety-six men, eighteen marines, and five officers, leaving Gunner Stocking, Carpenter Miller, Clerks Francis and Ferguson, and fifteen men with Lieutenant Middleton, to guard the ship.\n\nWashington Territory Governor Isaac Ingalls Stevens' ambitious treaty-making during 1854 and 1855 has been held to be the cause of the Puget Sound War. The battle was part of a Native American uprising in resistance to the pressure to cede land for reservations determined by territorial officials. There had been a series of skirmishes in the region over the previous several months, beginning October 28, 1855. There had been fighting between federal troops and natives in southern King, Thurston and Pierce counties. Five days before the attack on Seattle, Governor Stevens had declared a \"war of extermination\" upon the Indians.\n\nThe sloop \"Decatur\" had been called to Puget Sound both because of the trouble with local natives and to deter frequent raids by an alliance of the northern Haida from the Queen Charlotte Islands and the Tongass group of the Tlingit, from what was then Russian America. Captained by Isaac L. Sterret, the vessel struck an uncharted reef near Bainbridge Island on December 7, 1855, and was heavily damaged. (According to naval custom, the reef was named \"Decatur Reef\".) They limped into Seattle for repairs, which lasted until January 19. Sterret was temporarily taken off active duty December 10, although later returned to active duty. However, on the day of the battle, \"Decatur\" was commanded by Guert Gansevoort.\n\n\"Decatur\" lay at anchor in deep water, in a position from which it had total command of the settlement with 16 shipborne 32-pounders firing fuzed shells. To the defense on land, the ship contributed two nine-pounder cannon and 18 stands of arms.\n\nAbout this time, the raiders were attacking the White River settlers to the southeast. Survivors fled to Seattle. There they joined the fifty or so Seattle settlers. Assisted by marines from the \"Decatur\", they had constructed a blockhouse from lumber originally intended for shipment to San Francisco.\n\nDays before the battle (January 21), Territorial Governor Stevens arrived in Seattle aboard U.S.S. \"Active\", and discounted rumors of war. Almost immediately upon his departure, reports from friendly natives warned that the governor had been completely mistaken and that an attack was imminent. These reports have been variously credited to Chief Seattle, his daughter Princess Angeline, or another chief, Sucquardle (known also as \"Curley\" or \"Curly Jim\").\n\nDavid Swinson \"Doc\" Maynard, reputed to have had far more than the usual concern for the natives' rights and well-being, evacuated 434 friendly natives to the west side of Puget Sound (at his own expense and with the assistance of his wife).\n\nTo some extent, the settlers had organized for their defense as volunteers under a Captain Hewett. However, this company of volunteers had disbanded and re-formed several times over the months leading up to the battle. On the evening of January 22, with \"Decatur\" having taken a commanding position, the militia leaders declared that \"they would not serve longer while there was a ship in port to protect them\". Phelps writes that \"a more reckless, undisciplined set of men has seldom been let loose to prey upon any community than these eighty embryo soldiers upon Seattle… after much rough argument about thirty of their number became partially convinced that their individual safety depended upon unity of action under a competent leader, and they finally consented to form a company, provided Mr. Peixotto would consent to serve as captain. That gentleman accepted the honor…\"\n\nEmily Denny mentions the company as being captained by Hewitt and including William Gilliam as 1st Lieutenant, D.T. Denny as Corporal, and Robert Olliver as Sergeant. Phelps names both Hewitt and Peixotto as captains.\n\nPhelps lists the hostile natives as including the \"Kliktat\" (Klickitat and Spokane), \"Palouse\" (Palus), Walla-Walla, \"Yakami\" (Yakama), Kamialk, Nisqually, Puyallup, \"Lake\" (Duwamish-related, living near Lake Washington), \"and other tribes, estimated at six thousand warriors, marshaled under the three generals-in-chief Coquilton, Owhi, and Lushi, assisted by many subordinate chiefs.\" They had failed to recruit warriors from any of the several tribes or nations from the Olympic Peninsula, nor did they succeed in winning the Snoqualmie over to their cause. Although the Snoqualmie chief Patkanim was strongly opposed to the European-American settlers, he allied with them in this war.\n\nTwo hostile chiefs—Phelps says Owhi and Lushi (presumably, Leschi), other sources say Owhi and Coquilton—disguised themselves as friendly Indians and reconnoitered the situation the night before the battle. Phelps describes this in some detail: he was the sentry whom they tricked with a plausible story.\n\nAccording to Phelps' account, at least two native chiefs were playing a double game. Curley Jim had been considered friendly enough by the settlers to be allowed to remain within their encampment; conversely, his nephew Yark-eke-e-man had been considered one of the hostile force. According to Phelps, the nephew intended to betray the native attack. Curley Jim left the settlement in the company of his visitors, and they parleyed around midnight at the lodge of a chief named Tecumseh; Yark-eke-e-man and several \"chiefs of lesser note\" were also present. They set out a plan to kill all of the settlers and U.S. military; Curley requested that his friend Henry Yesler be allowed to live, but accepted being overruled in the matter.\n\nThey resolved to attack in a few hours, around 2 a.m.; Phelps wrote that that plan would have succeeded, since no defender was planning for a pre-dawn assault. But Yark-eke-e-man convinced the raiders to try a mid-morning attack, using a small decoy force to draw the \"Decatur's\" men out of the well-defended areas to do battle on First Hill.\n\nThere are no reliable estimates of the size of the attacking force. Isaac Stevens (who was not present), wrote to Washington that settlers estimated that 200 to 500 Indians had taken the field against them. Phelps put the number of enemy at 2,000, but (write Crowley and Wilma) \"frontier military officers often inflated the number of opposing forces to reinforce their accomplishments (or to minimize their failures).\" Historian Murray Morgan writes that early \"reports seem to have multiplied by ten the actual numbers. There could not have been more than one hundred and fifty.\"\n\nMany settlers resided on scattered claims divided by thick forest, because to establish a land claim, settlers had to live on it. Some settlers doubted that the Indians would attack, and had to run for the blockhouse on the morning of the battle.\n\nThe first fatality of the engagement was Jack Drew, a deserter from \"Decatur\" killed in friendly fire. When he attempted to enter a cabin through a window, and was shot dead by fifteen-year-old Milton Holgate.\n\nBecause the natives' only common language was Chinook jargon, a trade language that many of the white settlers also spoke, the settlers were able to hear and understand the attackers' shouted orders \"and revealed many incidents of the battle they were anxious to conceal.\"\n\nAn Indian known as \"Jim\", a relative of Curley's who died a few months later in a hunting accident, evaded Curley's vigilance and warned Dr. Williamson of the impending attack. Williamson sent a messenger to Yesler, who informed Gansevoort, and \"Decatur's\" troops abandoned their breakfast and returned to the positions they had held by night. 52 women and children found refuge on board \"Decatur\", and others on board the barque \"Brontes\". The non-combatants of the friendly tribes took to their canoes to get out of the way.\n\nCurley's sister (and Yark-eke-e-man's mother) Li-cu-mu-low (\"Nancy\"), whom Phelps describes as \"short, stout, and incapable of running,\" warned as she headed for her canoe that the Kliktat were gathered around Tom Pepper's house, which was in the forest, near the crest of First Hill. \"Decatur\" fired off a howitzer shell in that direction, the first shot of the battle. Phelps and a few others had been trying unsuccessfully to rouse the volunteers from their torpor. At the sound of the howitzer shell, they rushed as one for the blockhouse. There \"Sergeant Carbine several times charged them out of one door, to return as often by the other, till, wearying of the trouble, he left them to cower behind the wooden bulwarks, protected from the bullets of the foe.\"\n\nThe third division, contrary to orders, charged up the trail that led towards the lake. This charge met with success, as they pushed the attackers back without taking any casualties themselves. Klakum held a position behind a tree, and shot at Peixotto standing on the block-house steps, but missed and killed a boy, Milton G. Holgate, who was standing a few steps higher. It was the second death of a European American caused by another white.\n\nOn the south end, settlers on the peninsula faced off against natives on the mainland with a slough dividing them. Phelps describes \"the incessant rattle of small-arms, and an uninterrupted whistling of bullets, mingled with the furious yells of the Indians,\" but there were few casualties. A settler was killed when he ducked from behind a stump to get some drinking water; Clarence Bagley, quoting William Bell two days after the event, says the casualty was Christian White; Phelps, writing 17 years later, says it was Robert Wilson.\n\nHans Carl, an invalided sailor on \"Decatur\", died shortly thereafter, but for reasons unrelated to the battle.\n\nNews of the attack spread rapidly. By 4 p.m. it was known in Bellingham. At noon the day after the battle, \"Active\" steamed into Elliott Bay, Governor Stevens aboard. Stevens was, in Phelps's words, \"at last compelled to acknowledge the presence of hostile Indians in the Territory.\" \"Active\" headed south in the direction of Steilacoom, which seemed the most likely next target of an attack, dropping the governor at Olympia, the capital, on the way.\n\nYark-eke-e-man reported that the hostile chiefs were ill-provisioned. Confident of victory, they expected to provision themselves from the settlers' supplies. They spent the next several weeks scouring the land for food.\n\nTwo days after the battle, Coquilton threatened, through a messenger, \"that within one moon he would return with twenty thousand warriors, and, attacking by land and water, destroy the place in spite of all the war-ship could do to prevent.\" The threat was taken seriously, and leaders decided to improve Seattle's defenses. Henry Yesler volunteered ship's cargo of house lumber, and on February 1 \"Decatur's\" divisions began a two-week project to erect a defensive palisade: two fences five feet high, placed eighteen inches apart, and filled in with well-tamped earth, long, and enclosing a large portion of the town. A second block-house was also erected, and an old ship's cannon, plus a 6-pounder field-piece borrowed from \"Active,\" were to serve as its artillery.\n\nTrees and undergrowth were removed (variously attacked with levers, axes, and shovels, or burned in place) to provide an esplanade and enable \"Decatur's\" howitzer to sweep the shores. Much brush was also cleared from the town's inland edges, to reduce the cover for future attacks. On February 24, USS \"Massachusetts\" arrived and on March 28 USS \"John Hancock\".\n\nThe fortified town did not have to face a second battle. Defeat in the Battle of Seattle had discouraged the hostile natives, and they did not again amass a comparable force. Furthermore, Governor Stevens had convinced Patkanim and his men to take on the role of bounty hunters, paying them handsomely for collecting the scalps of leaders of the hostile tribes. Morgan does not describe the battle as a victory for the Americans. Rather, he writes that \"both sides were dismayed, the whites by the realization that the enemy really would attack a town, the Indians by their first experience with exploding shells rather than cannonballs.\"\n\nAlso by Stevens's order, a court-martial was convened at Seattle on May 15 for the trial of Klakum and twenty other Indians. The military officers acquitted them, deeming their actions as having been legitimate warfare against recognized combatants, not criminal acts. They were released after a declaration of peace. It was certainly not the end of violence between settlers and natives in the region, but it was the end of outright war.\n\nNine days after the battle, Chief Leschi and Chief Kitsap, along with a group of 17 Indians, appeared at the home of John McLeod near the Nisqually River. McLeod was a former employee of the Hudson's Bay Company, had a Nisqually wife, and was trusted by the hostile Indians. Leschi said that neither he nor his band had taken part in the attack on Seattle, and he thought the attack had been foolish. Leschi asked for John Swan, another trusted white man, to visit Leschi's camp on the Green River for a peace conference. When Swan did visit Leschi's camp a few days later, he counted about 150 warriors, or men of fighting age. Nearly all were from west of the Cascades, with only 10–20 from the east.\n\nJack Drew, a deserter from the \"Decatur\", was shot and killed by young Milton Holgate, a settler's son, when he tried to enter the latter's cabin. Holgate was killed by friendly fire, and another settler died in the battle: Christian White or Robert Wilson (see above). One sailor, Hans Carl, died later of causes unrelated to the battle. Phelps characterizes the low casualties as \"incredible\" and \"miraculous\", given that \"one hundred and sixty men were for seven hours exposed to an almost uninterrupted storm of bullets\".\n\nThe casualties on the native side are unknown. Phelps claimed personally to have seen ten men die from one shell. He said that the natives later admitted to 28 dead and 80 wounded, but said that the native women \"secret[ed] the dead beyond all chance of discovery.\" No Indian bodies were found on the battlefield.\n\nAccording to Seattle lore, decades after the battle, Seattle's future fire chief Gardner Kellogg was excavating his house and found a shell from \"Decatur\" that had buried itself without exploding. He stuck it under a stump that he was trying to burn out and went off to lunch. Dexter Horton stopped by to warm the seat of his pants at the fire, and as it exploded, nearly became the last casualty of the battle of Seattle.\n", "id": "7738130", "categories": ["Conflicts in 1856", "Naval battles and operations of the American Indian Wars", "History of Seattle", "1856 in the United States"], "title": "Battle of Seattle (1856)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738135", "text": "Epitaciolândia\n\nEpitaciolândia is a municipality located in the southeast of the Brazilian state of Acre. Its population is 13 434 and its area is 1,659 km². It is the southernmost municipality in Acre.\n\nThe municipality contains part of the Chico Mendes Extractive Reserve, a sustainable use environmental unit created in 1990.\n", "id": "7738135", "categories": ["Populated places established in 1993", "Municipalities in Acre (state)"], "title": "Epitaciolândia"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738136", "text": "Fair to Midland\n\nFair to Midland was an American progressive rock band based in Dallas, Texas. According to the band's official website, their name comes from \"…an old Texan play on the term 'fair to middling'.\" The band produced two self-released albums before signing to Serjical Strike; System of a Down's Serj Tankian vanity label at Universal Republic. There, they released their only major record label album, \"\", in 2007. While the album broke into the \"Billboard\" 200, they eventually parted ways with Serjical Strike and later released their fourth album, \"Arrows and Anchors\" in July 2011. Tentative plans for a fifth album had been discussed at the end of the \"Arrow and Anchors\" touring cycle, but the band became inactive in 2013.\n\nFair to Midland was formed in 1998 by friends Andrew Darroh Sudderth and Cliff Campbell, both of Sulphur Springs, Texas. Sudderth originally started as the band's bassist, but switched to be the band's lead vocalist after rounding out the band with more members, namely Nathin Seals on bass and Jason Pintler on drums. After their independent debut album in late 2001, \"The Carbon Copy Silver Lining\", Pintler left the band and was replaced by Brett Stowers. For their second album, 2004's \"Inter.funda.stifle\", keyboardist Matt Langley, who was a guest musician on the first album, officially joined the band. The album was recorded as a quintet, and after release, the band toured extensively to promote the albums, building up a fanbase in the Dallas, Texas Deep Ellum music scene. However, attempts to branch out into bigger music scenes, such as Los Angeles, proved futile for the band. In 2005, Seals left the group as well. While he was replaced by Jon Dicken, still, a lack of progress, combined with increasing costs of self-funding all of their efforts, and Sudderth and Campbells college aspirations, led the band to contemplate breaking up. Just as the band was seriously discussing a break up, they received a call from Serj Tankian, frontman of American hard rock band System of a Down. Their albums and live shows had caught his attention, and showed interest in signing them to his vanity label Serjical Strike, on Universal Republic Records. This rejuvenated the band's confidence, and they signed on in April 2006, starting work on a new album shortly after.\n\nShortly after signing to the Serjical Strike label, \"The Drawn and Quartered EP\" was released, featuring demo and live tracks from \"inter.funda.stifle\", and a mini-documentary titled \"The Drawn and Quartered Kinescope\", which served as an introduction of the band, including interviews and past concert footage. Meanwhile, the band worked on recording their third album with music producer David Bottrill. For it, the band chose to rerecord many of the songs from \"inter.funda.stifle\" which they felt could benefit from a professional music producer and bigger production budget. After a few minor delays, the album, entitled, \"\", was released on June 12, 2007.\n\nThe band toured extensively throughout 2007 and 2008 in support of the album, performing at major concerts such as Coachella, Rock am Ring, and Rock im Park. They opened for bands such as Rage Against the Machine, Smashing Pumpkins, Queens of the Stone Age, Dir En Grey, Muse, and Serj Tankian's solo band. Notably, they even teamed up Tankian at times for a live improvisational version of their song \"The Walls of Jericho\". Between 100 and 150 shows were played in support of the album in 2007 alone.\n\nFair to Midland were the winners of the \"Dallas Observer\" Music Award in the Best Metal category for both 2007 and 2008.\n\nIn August 2008, Fair to Midland began writing their fourth studio album. By October, Stowers stated that the band had so far written about 4–6 songs that were in \"various states of completion\". He also wrote that the band wanted to take their time and release the record when it’s done. In November, the band announced they had signed a record deal with E1 music, and that they were aiming for an early 2011 release date. Stowers stated the album would go in a darker and more cynical direction, as a result of the grueling two year touring schedule in support of their prior album.\n\nOn January 9, 2010, the band was in an accident, temporarily suspending touring and delaying recording. The band crashed and flipped their van and trailer. While the band were largely not seriously injured, it left much of their gear destroyed. Four days later the band released a short video involving post-accident footage, entitled \"FWIW\", standing for \"For What It's Worth\", which included a short clip of a studio demo of a new song called \"A Loophole in Limbo\".\n\nThe band continued to work on the album into 2011 with music producer Joe Barresi. By March, they had revealed the title, \"Arrows and Anchors\", and in April, they released the first single, \"Musical Chairs\", on iTunes. In May, the studio version of \"Amarillo Sleeps on My Pillow\" was offered for free download on the band's website. The album was released on July 12, 2011.\n\nOn October 26, it was announced that Jon Dicken had decided to leave the band, with Ryan Collier, previously with Opus Dai, was announced as his touring replacement. A month later, on November 26, Brett Stowers announced that he had left the band as well, with Logan Kennedy being his replacement. The band pushed forward, releasing their first DVD, \"Welcome to the Dirt\" in November, consisting mainly of band shots and fan footage of live shows. The profit from this release helped fund a professional video recording of the band's show at The Machine Shop in Flint on December 17, which was later released on the band's first widely released DVD, \"Live at the Machine Shop\" in March 2012. On October 9 the band announced the release of their second DVD, combined with an audio CD, \"Live at Andy's Bar\", consisting of footage of an acoustic live set performed by the band in March 2012, which was released on November 12.\n\nAs of September 2012, the band had finished touring in support of \"Anchors and Arrows\", and announced intentions of creating a fifth album. The band intended on starting by finishing some material left over from their prior album. However, as of early 2013, all communications from the band's websites and social media ceased. Stowers, who had left the band in 2011, has been the only party to discuss the band stating that all he knew was that, at his time of leaving, the band had accumulated substantial debt, was without a label, and members had scattered across the entire country.\n\nProgressive rock has commonly been used as a term to describe the band's sound by critics. Keyboardist Matt Langley described his stance on this:\nNot the way most people define \"prog.\" \"Prog\" suggests to me a band whose primary focus is mad technical skill with their instruments. All in Fair to Midland strive to play well (and in my opinion, succeed), but in that respect we're certainly no match for, for example, Dream Theater. However, there are those who expand the definition to include bands whose focus may or may not be less on the technical and more about experimental instrumentation, voicings, unusual parts and changes … by that amended definition, I suppose we'd fit into some people's idea of the prog rock mold. Either way is fine with me. \n\nHe also cited the band A Perfect Circle as an inspiration for the \"non-technical\" progressive rock sound. Guitarist Cliff Campbell expanded on the band's influences, stating,\n\nHe also stated that primary lyricist and vocalist Darroh Sudderth \"is a fan of dark, antiquated children’s stories\" and that this inspiration of \"The childlike imagery and sound alternating with the dark, heavy, aggressive parts\" was a defining feature of their sound.\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7738136", "categories": ["Rock music groups from Texas"], "title": "Fair to Midland"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738143", "text": "Potchefstroom High School for Boys\n\nPotchefstroom High School for Boys is a high school situated in Potchefstroom, South Africa. It is one of the oldest schools in South Africa.\n\nWith the Transvaal under British control, Lord Milner, the Colonial Secretary at the time created educational facilities (known as the Milner Schools) for English-speaking pupils. The site for the school had been an infamous concentration camp during the 2nd South African War. The first school on the land was for the children interned in the camp. On 31 January 1905, accompanied by the band of the Border Regiment, Sir Richard Solomon, Lt-Governor of Transvaal opened Potchefstroom College upon instruction from the then Education Department, the school was renamed Potchefstroom High School for Boys. \"College\" is a boarding school based on the English boarding schools system. Founded by C.D. Hope (who was also the first principal of Pretoria Boys High School as well as Jeppe High School for Boys), the original structure had been built long before and had to close during the Anglo-Boer war. The school-building itself was designed in Cape Dutch architecture design as was prominent in style during those times which has since been declared a local heritage site. There are 3 boarding houses: Granton (Oxford Blue) (1909), Milton (Cambridge Blue) (1910) and Buxton (British Racing Green), which was constructed much later. The fourth house, Barnard (Royal Red) is the 'Day-Boy' house. These later buildings did not follow the traditional Cape Dutch styles and were built more suited to the period they were built in. The school's motto, Iustorum Semita Lux Splendens (Latin), was adapted by the founder C.D. Hope, from Proverbs 4:18, and means \"The path of righteousness (alternately: the just) is (as) a shining light.\"\n\nDuring the 1905 hunting season, just before the first Springbok team went on their rugby tour, the headmaster C.D. Hope was given the horns of a springbok by his brother-in-law. These horns, mounted, are in the school’s museum and a springbok head forms part of the school’s badge.\n\n\nThe school has a reputation for being very sports-orientated as every student is required to participate in at least one sport during each sport's season. Since the schools inception \"Boys High\" has produced many internationally recognized sportsmen. A wide variety of sports are offered at the school of which the more popular ones include: rugby, hockey, cricket, tennis and swimming. Beyond this, each student is then required to do athletics at inter-house level.\n\nApart from the local schools Potchefstroom Boys' traditional sporting rivals include Pretoria Boys’ High, King Edwards, Jeppe Boys, Parktown Boys and St Stithians each year.\n\nThe school's cultural activities are run with the school's teaching staff in collaboration with the students, activities such as plays and public speaking occur regularly.\n\nThe school's alumni is formed of old school members who join the school's Old Boys Society. This is often referred to as Old Mooi because of the schools close proximity to the Mooi River which bisects the town of Potchefstroom. Among other tasks, the society is responsible for the over-seeing of the school and helps with the SGB (Student Governing Body). The society is also responsible for meetings and student reunions.\n\n\n", "id": "7738143", "categories": ["Schools in North West (South African province)", "Boarding schools in South Africa"], "title": "Potchefstroom High School for Boys"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738144", "text": "Heritage Trail (Iowa)\n\nHeritage Trail is a long multiuse rail trail connecting Dubuque and Dyersville, Iowa.\n\nIt is maintained by the Dubuque County Conservation Board, and was converted from a segment of the former Chicago Great Western railroad line between Chicago and Oelwein, Iowa. Surfaced with compacted, crushed limestone.\n\n\n", "id": "7738144", "categories": ["Heritage trails", "National Recreation Trails of the United States", "Rail trails in Iowa", "Parks in Dubuque, Iowa", "Protected areas of Dubuque County, Iowa"], "title": "Heritage Trail (Iowa)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738150", "text": "Kambara\n\nKambara is an extinct genus of mekosuchine crocodylian that lived during the Eocene and Oligocene epochs in Australia.\n\nAt around 55 million years old, remains of \"Kambara\" are among the oldest Tertiary fossils found in Australia (although there are some recent Cretaceous fossils that are twice that age). \"Kambara\" is the oldest known mekosuchine. The genus name comes from an Aboriginal term meaning \"crocodile\".\n\nThere are currently four species of \"Kambara\" described: the type species \"K. murgonensis\" (Willis & Molnar, 1993), \"K. implexidens\" (Salisbury & Willis, 1996), \"K. molnari\" (Holt et al., 2005), and \"K. taraina\" (Buchanan, 2009). All four species have a generalised crocodylian body plan, growing to sizes similar to the modern Saltwater Crocodile, \"Crocodylus porosus\". \"Kambara\" shows an interesting characteristic of having multiple bite patterns within the same genus. \"Kambara murgonensis\" has a near complete overbite, \"K. implexidens\" a more interlocking dentition and \"K. molnarai\" an intermediate condition. While initially thought to be the most primitive member of an Australasian radiation of mekosuchine crocodylians, recent studies (Holt, et al., 2007) have suggested that this may not be the case, and that there are at least two separate lineages in Australia.\n\n\"Kambara\" and other mekosuchines are often thought to have been better adapted to movement on land than are living crocodilians. The degree of twisting or torsion in the humerus of \"Kambara\" is less than that of living crocodilians, and the shoulder joint of \"Kambara\" is stronger and allows for greater motion than those of modern species. However, \"Kambara\" is still thought to have been at least partially aquatic because its head is flattened like that of typical aquatic crocodilians.\n\nFossils have been found at the Murgon fossil site in south-eastern Queensland.\n\n", "id": "7738150", "categories": ["Oligocene crocodylomorphs", "Eocene crocodylomorphs", "Mekosuchinae"], "title": "Kambara"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738157", "text": "Feijó, Acre\n\nFeijó is municipality located in the center of the Brazilian state of Acre. Its population is 31 288 and its area is 24,202 km².\n\nThe city is served by Feijó Airport.\n\nThe municipality contains the Santa Rosa do Purus National Forest, a sustainable use conservation unit created in 2001.\n", "id": "7738157", "categories": ["Municipalities in Acre (state)"], "title": "Feijó, Acre"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738167", "text": "Jordão, Acre\n\nJordão (English: Jordan) is a municipality located in the western region of the Brazilian state of Acre. Its population is 6 059 and its area is 5,429 km².\n\nThe municipality contains 62% of the Alto Tarauacá Extractive Reserve, created in 2000.\n", "id": "7738167", "categories": ["Municipalities in Acre (state)"], "title": "Jordão, Acre"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738173", "text": "Texas State Highway 191\n\nState Highway 191 or SH 191 is a Texas state highway running from the north side of Odessa east to the western edge of Midland. The highway is usually used as a reliever route for local traffic between the two cities, as opposed to I‑20 a few miles to the south.\n\nSH 191 begins at an intersection with Spur 450 in western Odessa, just short of SH 302 and Loop 338. The highway runs east along 42nd Street, soon crossing U.S. Highway 385 (US 385). In the eastern part of the city, SH 191 crosses by Music City Mall and the University of Texas at the Permian Basin and picks up freeway status at the eastern leg of Loop 338. The highway passes through mostly rural land, with some subdivisions nearby. The highway exits the Odessa city limits and enters into Midland County. SH 191 crosses SH 349 just north of Midland International Airport and enters into Midland. A few miles to the northeast of here, SH 158 joins the highway, with the two running together until Loop 250, where SH 191 ends, but the mainlanes continues east into the city as a business route of SH 158.\n\nSH 191 was originally designated on November 28, 1932, on a route from Albany south to Coleman. On September 26, 1939, this route had been transferred to US 183. The current SH 191 was designated on August 31, 1977, from SH 158 southwest to Loop 338 & Spur 492.\nSpur 492 was designated on June 4, 1970, from Loop 338 westward to Grandview Avenue, replacing FM 2399 and extending the road west. On August 4, 1970, Spur 492 extended west to another point on Loop 338. This mileage was transferred to SH 191 on April 26, 1983.\n", "id": "7738173", "categories": ["Transportation in Ector County, Texas", "Transportation in Midland County, Texas", "State highways in Texas"], "title": "Texas State Highway 191"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738175", "text": "List of primary schools in South Africa\n\nList of primary school in South Africa, by Province\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7738175", "categories": ["Primary schools in South Africa"], "title": "List of primary schools in South Africa"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738176", "text": "Splashdown (video game)\n\nSplashdown is a water racing video game developed by Rainbow Studios and published by Infogrames originally for the PlayStation 2 and was later ported to the Xbox. It was released under the Atari brand name.\n\nIt received a sequel, \"\", in 2003, and was published by Rainbow Studios' new owner THQ.\n\n\"Splashdown\" is quite similar to Nintendo's \"Wave Race\" series. Players take control of a personal water craft as they race against each other on various courses. Players must pass the correct side of buoys on the way, or the personal water craft may stall as a penalty.\n\n\"Splashdown\" received \"generally favorable reviews\" on both platforms according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. In Japan, where the PlayStation 2 version was ported for release on July 11, 2002, \"Famitsu\" gave it a score of 28 out of 40.\n", "id": "7738176", "categories": ["Racing video games", "Xbox games", "Atari games", "PlayStation 2 games", "Water sports video games", "2001 video games"], "title": "Splashdown (video game)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738185", "text": "List of Murder One characters\n\nThis is a list of characters in the ABC television drama \"Murder One\".\n\n(Daniel Benzali) The head of the firm, and a respected veteran defense attorney. He gets Richard Cross cleared for Jessica's murder but is surprised to find himself later defending Neil Avedon for the same murder. He spends much of the first season exploring alternative theories as to who killed Jessica Costello in an attempt to clear Neil's name.\n\n(Mary McCormack) Justine is highly driven, and her ambition has overridden her better judgment on more than one occasion. She made no secret of her desire to make second chair when Richard Cross was charged, though Ted ultimately chose Lisa. She later began doing business with Cross, which led to Ted firing her after he found out. He later took her back, however, after she gave the firm valuable information regarding Cross.\n\n(Michael Hayden) A younger attorney, and highly ambitious (though less so than Justine). He served as second chair during the Avedon trial.\n\n(J.C. MacKenzie) A brilliant legal mind, able to obtain relevant precedents from past cases pertaining to current ones. His intelligence is tempered by his awkwardness in social situations, which has rarely led to him making second chair in cases. A mutual attraction developed between him and Julie Costello, though that ended when she abruptly married Richard Cross.\n\n(Grace Phillips) Lisa served as Ted's second chair during the Richard Cross case. She was also having a relationship with Chris.\n\n(John Fleck) Louis is Ted's personal assistant.\n\n(Kevin Tighe) Davie Blalock served as the firm's private investigator until he was murdered by Rusty Arnold while following up a lead for the Avedon case.\n\n(Joe Spano) Ray is a retired police detective whom the firm defended in an assault charge after he attempted to protect a woman from her abusive husband. After Dave Blalock's death, Hoffman hired him as the firm's new investigator.\n\n(Vanessa A. Williams) Lila is the firm's receptionist. Her role on the series is limited though the firm did defend her fiancée on a charge in an early episode.\n\n(Barbara Bosson) The lead prosecutor in the Avedon trial. Her un-chic wardrobe and simple demeanor belie the fact that she is a fierce and effective prosecutor. Despite the adversarial nature of their jobs, she and Ted are good friends and have a mutual personal and professional respect.\n\n(Dylan Baker) A detective in the LAPD's Robbery/Homicide department, he in charge of investigating the murder of Jessica Costello, arresting Richard Cross, then Neil Avedon for the murder. He and Ted frequently butted heads, though tensions eased between the two after Ted's daughter was abducted.\n\n(Gregory Itzin) The political-minded District Attorney of the county of Los Angeles, with aspirations for being elected Governor of California. His professional decisions appear to based at least as much on how the public perceives him as on what is truly the right course of action.\n\n(Markus Redmond) The second chair during the Avedon case. He is a younger, less experienced ADA. Though generally competent, he did not endear himself in the eyes of the jury with his aggressive cross-examination of Neil Avedon's mother.\n\n(Stanley Tucci). A millionaire businessman, a longtime acquaintance of Ted's, and the first man arrested for Jessica Costello's murder. The charges are quickly dismissed after Cross produces an alibi and he later bankrolled Neil Avedon's defense, claiming him to be a friend. As time passes, however, Ted becomes convinced that Cross is manipulating events and may be part of a conspiracy to frame Neil for the murder. Cross was a notorious philanderer and was eventually found to be HIV positive. Once he could no longer safely engage in sex with others, he would set up Jessica and her sister Julie with men, then obtain sexual gratification by having them describe the encounters in graphic detail.\n\n(Jason Gedrick) A popular movie actor with a long history of misdemeanors, who frequently abused drugs and alcohol. The show began with Ted obtaining a deal for Neil following his latest offence, then angrily dismissing him as a client for his reckless behaviour. Ted later reluctantly took his case after he was arrested for the murder of Jessica (whom he'd been dating).\n\n(Bobbie Philips) Jessica's older sister, and a model with a checkered past of her own, largely due to her romantic involvement with Richard Cross. She was originally set to testify against Cross at Neil's trial but stunned Ted and the entire court with the revelation that she could no longer testify as she and Cross had just eloped.\n\n(Patricia Clarkson) Ted's patient and loving wife. She and Ted attempted to shield their young daughter Elizabeth from the heavy public scrutiny of the trial (with limited success). After the trial continued to infiltrate their lives, culminating in Elizabeth being abducted briefly, Annie asked for a separation, and eventually a divorce. After the end of the trial, there were indications the two would reconcile, however.\n\n(Linda Carlson) The presiding judge over the Avedon trial. She and Ted had been romantically involved several years before he was married, though their relationship in the courtroom was strictly professional.\n\n(Donna Murphy) Richard's first wife and a close friend of Ted's. She grew tired of his long history of infidelity and divorced him soon after he was cleared of Jessica's murder. She later had a brief affair with Ted after he and Annie separated.\n\n(Stanley Kamel) Neil's psychiatrist, later found to part of a conspiracy to frame Neil. He testified that Neil had called his office the night of Jessica's murder and confessing to the crime. Hoffman attempted to undermine his credibility by presenting evidence that Lester had sexually abused female patients.\n\n(Miguel Sandoval) A business associate of Richard Cross' from Brazil, he is in fact a cocaine dealer. Cross asked Ted to represent Roberto's son Eduardo on a rape charge, though Roberto paid the young girl off before he can do anything. After Eduardo is later charged with attempting to strangle another girl, Ted begins to wonder if he had something to do with Jessica's death.\n\n(John Pleshette) A producer from the studio that produced Neil's latest movie \"Deadbolt\". He is one of the people mentioned in Jessica's diary and had possibly slept with her, making him a suspect in her murder. He attempted to feign illness to avoid taking the stand, though the ruse was quickly exposed.\n\n(Collette White) The victim; a fifteen-year-old girl found naked and strangled in her bedroom after having sex with an older man. Numerous suspects and theories surfaced throughout the trial though the identity of her killer was not revealed until the season finale.\n", "id": "7738185", "categories": [], "title": "List of Murder One characters"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738188", "text": "Eden Memorial Park Cemetery\n\nEden Memorial Park Cemetery is a Jewish cemetery located at 11500 Sepulveda Boulevard, Mission Hills, California, in the San Fernando Valley of Los Angeles. Many Jews from the entertainment industry are buried here.\n\nThe operators of the cemetery were sued on more than one occasion for destroying graves and discarding human remains to make room for new burials.\n\n\n", "id": "7738188", "categories": ["Jews and Judaism in Los Angeles", "Jewish cemeteries in California", "Cemeteries in Los Angeles", "Mission Hills, Los Angeles"], "title": "Eden Memorial Park Cemetery"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738206", "text": "Mâncio Lima\n\nMâncio Lima is the westernmost municipality of Brazil and it is located in the state of Acre. It is also the northernmost city of that state. Its population is 13,785 and its area is 4,672 km². Its counterparts in the North, South and East are respectively Uiramutã, state of Roraima; Chuí, Rio Grande do Sul; and João Pessoa, Paraíba.\n\nThe municipality contains 32% of the Serra do Divisor National Park, created in 1989.\n", "id": "7738206", "categories": ["Populated places established in 1977", "Municipalities in Acre (state)"], "title": "Mâncio Lima"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738233", "text": "James Anderson (English actor)\n\nJames Anderson (born 3 November 1980) is an English actor.\n\nBorn in the Surrey village of Thursley, Anderson graduated with first class honours from Warwick University and trained at the Actors Studio (MFA) in New York City. He has since had roles for TV, the stage and independent film. He received the 2006 Gold Hugo Award.\n\nOn 19 May 2009, it was announced that Anderson would be joining the cast of \"Holby City\" as student doctor Oliver Valentine. He left the cast in 2013. It was then announced on 30 October 2014 that he had returned to the cast of \"Holby City\". On 2 September 2016 Anderson got engaged in Sifnos, Greece. On 27 March 2018 Anderson left \"Holby City\" again.\n\n\n", "id": "7738233", "categories": ["Male actors from Surrey", "English male film actors", "Male actors from London", "1980 births", "English male television actors", "Living people", "English male soap opera actors"], "title": "James Anderson (English actor)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738234", "text": "Jeffrey C. Thomas\n\nJeffrey C. Thomas (January 1, 1940 – September 16, 2009) was a physician who lived and practiced in Janesville, Wisconsin. United States He was a seven-time candidate for United States Congress in Wisconsin's 1st congressional district. Thomas last won the Democratic nomination in a five-way primary held in September, 2006.\n\nThomas graduated from Janesville High School in 1958 and from Dartmouth College in 1962. He attended the University of Wisconsin Medical School, where he graduated in 1966. He became board-certified in orthopedic surgery in 1974, and was a member of the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons.\n\nAt one time, Thomas was associated with Mercy Health System of Janesville. After he retired, he operated the Well Stone Free Clinic.\n\nThomas served 12 years on the Janesville School Board and four years on the Janesville City Council.\n\nHe ran for Congress 7 times. In his Congressional campaigns he described his primary issues as \"health care, health care, health care\". In the 2006 election, Thomas was critical of incumbent Republican Paul Ryan and other politicians who had received money from Tom DeLay's Americans for a Republican Majority political action committee and from indicted lobbyist Jack Abramoff.\n\n", "id": "7738234", "categories": ["University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health alumni", "Wisconsin Democrats", "2009 deaths", "Physicians from Wisconsin", "Wisconsin city council members", "1940 births", "Politicians from Janesville, Wisconsin"], "title": "Jeffrey C. Thomas"}
