{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718712", "text": "Al-Yarmouk SC (Kuwait)\n\nAl-Yarmouk is a Kuwaiti professional sports club located in the district of Mishref. It was established on 28 February 1965 in Failaka Island and was the only Kuwaiti club to have been established outside mainland Kuwait at that time. The club was relocated to mainland Kuwait after the 1990–1991 Gulf War, which resulted in the displacement of many inhabitants belonging to Failaka's island settlements. Therefore, due to inadequate facilities after the liberation of Kuwait, it was inevitable that the team had to move to a better and more sustainable location. Other reasons, aside the Gulf War, for the relocation of the club was due to the insufficient means of transportation for teams and players to travel to Failaka Island for away matches during the regular season.\n\nAl Yarmouk is mostly famous for its football team, which gave rise to a plethora of talented Kuwaiti football players during the course of its history. The club has only achieved 4 trophies since it was first established, 2 of which were the Prince Cups in 1970 and 1973, which is usually regarded as the most prestigious and important trophy in Kuwaiti football. The other 2 trophy achievements were the Second division titles won in 1968 and 1989.\n\nAl Yarmouk sports club went through a major renovation project since 2006, as part of a grand scheme to regenerate interest within the local Mishref community. A new stadium was built and is also planned for a second phase of renovation. Al Yarmouk also built new swimming facilities as well as an indoor arena for basketball, handball, volleyball and other indoor sports such as table tennis. A track and field team is also widely financed from the club's department. There is also an extra outdoor football field for training and for youth matches.\n\nThe Mishref stadium is planned to be an all-seater, and there are also plans to make seating expansions and a roof around all the stands.\n\nThe club's main two colors are navy blue and white, representing the sea, which was a major part of Failaka Island's culture. The logo represents the ancient Greek ruins located in Failaka Island, also known as 'Ikaros' during the times of Alexander the Great. Al Yarmouk club have since used this logo and color as a representation of their potential strength to success.\n\nThe club isn't as popular as Kuwait's big five elite (Kuwait SC, Al-Arabi SC, Qadsia SC, Kazma SC and Salmiya SC), however, it is usually supported primarily by people in the surrounding area of the club's location. Prior to the Gulf War, it was supported by the local inhabitants of Failaka Island. After its relocation, however, it shifted away from Failaka's fanbase and is now attracting fans mostly from the Mishref residential area, although it also attracts supporters from other nearby areas such as Salwa and Bayan.\n\nPeople expect Al Yarmouk to have a bright and successful future with its ambitious new board.\n\n\n\nThe idea of initiating a club based in the island of Failaka began in 1963 when a group of local footballers wanted to officially join the Kuwaiti football association and start participating in its respective competitions. The club was to represent the local inhabitants of Failaka. The club was officially declared on 28 February 1965 and was formally conceived by the Kuwaiti football association board on 7 March 1965.\n\nThe name of the club roots back to the legendary Islamic battle of 'Al Yarmouk', which took place near the Yarmouk River, now the border between Jordan and Syria, between Arab-Muslims and Byzantine-Christians. The reason why this name was chosen is that Al Yarmouk holds various Greek ruins, which reminded the local people of the Byzantine Empire and how strongly it influenced Northern Arabia before Islamic times, making them appreciate the battle of Yarmouk, thus deciding on naming it after the battle which resulted in the triumph of Muslims over Christians. The club badge/emblem represents a reminder of Failaka's history as Ikarus, the name given to it by the ancient Macedonians during Alexander the Great's reign over this region, and his establishments in the island which is reflected today by the appearance of many old Greek ruins.\n\nIn\n\nOut\n\n", "id": "7718712", "categories": ["Football clubs in Kuwait", "Association football clubs established in 1965"], "title": "Al-Yarmouk SC (Kuwait)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718727", "text": "Sulaibikhat\n\nSulaibikhat Camp was a residential area east of Kuwait City.\n\nThe British camp was built in Sulaibikhat during the British mandate, and consisted of approximately 200 bungalow-style residential units, contained within a fenced area on the Persian Gulf.\n\nAfter being deserted by the British at the end of the British mandate in 1961, the camp was occupied by senior government employees (doctors, engineers, pharmacists, veterinarians, lawyers, judges, etc.) working for the Government of Kuwait.\n\nThe Camp had its own police station. It had its own supermarket (the \"Salwa Market\"), and at one stage a laundry outlet and a hairstylist.\n\nThe Camp had a Club for the residents in the area with an outdoor swimming pool, three tennis clubs, a football field, and a cinema house. It was the gathering point of the youth on festive occasions. That continued to be the case until 1980, when the residents were relocated and the camp was demolished.\n\nThe Camp had its own chilled water cooling facility that pumped chilled water to all 200 houses. Fan units in the houses located in each room of the house maintained cool temperatures for the occupants.\n\nThe children who grew up in that camp formed a Facebook group in 2007. The group has over 170 members and actively maintains contact between the former residents.\n", "id": "7718727", "categories": ["Populated places in Kuwait"], "title": "Sulaibikhat"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718731", "text": "Musexpo\n\nMUSEXPO is an international music, media & technology conference based in Los Angeles. Since its inception in 2005, MUSEXPO has played host to thousands of executives from all around the world and showcased 100+ artists from dozens of countries, many of which left with substantial outcomes. With participation from executives such as Larry King (CNN), Tom Anderson (Co-Founder, MySpace), Chad Hurley (Co-Founder, YouTube), Steve Schnur (Head of Music, Electronic Arts) and many others, MUSEXPO has continually stayed on top of what is current and relevant in today's music industry. Due to popular demand, the event has recently been launched internationally: including the fifth annual International Music, Media & Technology conference MUSEXPO 2009 on Sunday April 26 at the London West Hollywood Hotel, One Movement MUSEXPO Asia Pacific in Perth, Western Australia October 6-10, 2010 and MUSEXPO Europe which takes place in Fall 2011. MUSEXPO LA will be held in Spring 2011.\n\nMUSEXPO: Three Continents, One Vision.\n\nAnimal Alpha, Bloodpit, Breed 77, Cass Fox, Drawn from Bees, Deep Insight, Embrace (English band), Engerica, Evermore, Goldenhorse, Gomo, Infadels, Intercooler (band), Kwan, Missy Higgins, Mudmen, Pilot Speed, Poets of the Fall, Reamonn, Resin Dogs, Spazzys, The Boat People (Australian band), The Gift (band), The Temper Trap, Tina Dico, MENEW, Katy Perry, Jessie J and Losing Focus.\n\n", "id": "7718731", "categories": ["Music festivals in California", "Music conferences", "Recurring_events_established_in_2005"], "title": "Musexpo"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718733", "text": "Julio Navarro\n\nJulio Navarro Ventura (January 9, 1934 – January 24, 2018) was a Major League Baseball relief pitcher. He played for the Los Angeles Angels (1962–64), Detroit Tigers (1964–66), and Atlanta Braves (1970).\n\nThe 5'11\", 190 lb. right-hander with the nickname \"Whiplash\" was acquired by the Angels from the San Francisco Giants organization on September 2, 1962. Navarro made his major league debut in relief on September 3, 1962 against the New York Yankees in game 2 of a doubleheader at Yankee Stadium. He pitched three innings and gave up two earned runs in the 6–5 Angels victory. He struck out one batter, Roger Maris. He won his first major league game the very next day with 1.1 scoreless innings against New York. He retired Bobby Richardson to end the 8th, L.A. scored in the top of the 9th, and then he got Roger Maris, Elston Howard, and Johnny Blanchard to close out the game. He pitched seven more games that month, ending with a 4.70 ERA.\n\nThe next season, 1963, was Navarro's best statistically. He teamed with 40-year-old Art Fowler to give the Angels a pair of dependable closers. Navarro finished in the American League top ten for games pitched (57), saves (12), and games finished (30). He was 4–5 with an ERA of 2.89.\n\nNavarro began the 1964 season in excellent fashion. He relieved in five games for the Angels with a 1.93 ERA, then was traded to the Detroit Tigers for outfielder/pitcher Willie Smith on April 28. He was never the same after that, pitching decently for Detroit but not with the degree of effectiveness he had shown with Los Angeles. He was out of the big leagues after 1966 but returned in 1970 to make 17 appearances for the Atlanta Braves.\n\nCareer totals include a 7–9 record in 130 games, 1 game started, 66 games finished, 17 saves, and an ERA of 3.65. He had 151 strikeouts in 212.1 innings pitched for a 6.40 K/9IP, higher than the major league average during his era. Very good defensively, he handled 49 out of 50 total chances successfully for a fielding percentage of .980.\n\nHe is the father of former major league pitcher Jaime Navarro.\n\nNavarro died peacefully January 24, 2018 in Orlando, Florida surrounded by his beloved wife and children.\n\n", "id": "7718733", "categories": ["Los Angeles Angels players", "2018 deaths", "1936 births", "Detroit Tigers players", "Syracuse Chiefs players", "People from Vieques, Puerto Rico", "Major League Baseball players from Puerto Rico", "Major League Baseball pitchers", "Deaths from Alzheimer's disease", "Hawaii Islanders players", "Chicago Cubs scouts", "Atlanta Braves players"], "title": "Julio Navarro"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718745", "text": "Al Tadhamon SC\n\nAl Tadhamon SC is a Kuwaiti football club based in Al Farwaniya.\n\n", "id": "7718745", "categories": ["Football clubs in Kuwait", "Association football clubs established in 1965"], "title": "Al Tadhamon SC"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718750", "text": "Michigan's 7th congressional district\n\nMichigan's 7th congressional district is a United States congressional district in Southern Michigan. From 2004 to 2013 it consisted of all of Branch, Eaton, Hillsdale, Jackson, and Lenawee counties, and included most of Calhoun and a large portion of western and northern Washtenaw counties. The district shifted east in the 2012 redistricting, and now includes the western suburbs of Ann Arbor and Monroe County.\n\nIn the November 2, 2010 midterm elections, Republican Tim Walberg defeated Mark Schauer, the district's previous congressman.\n\nMichigan has 14 congressional districts, and Michigan's law on redistricting states that the district at the southeasternmost corner of the state must be the highest numbered district. However, the 7th district, despite being containing the southeasternmost corner of the state, is not the highest numbered district.\n\n\nThe 7th Congressional district was formed in 1872 covering the Thumb of Michigan. It had Tuscola, Huron, Sanilac, Lapeer, St. Clair and Macomb Counties. In 1882 Tuscola County was removed from the district but everything else remained the same. In 1892 Grosse Point and Hamtramck Townships, the latter one today mainly within the city boundaries of Detroit were moved into the 7th District.\n\nIn 1912 Tuscola county was put back in the 7th district, but it may have lost its Wayne County areas. It was definitely deprived of these areas by 1932.\n\nIn 1964 the 7th district experienced its most drastic redistricting yet. Only Lapeer County was retained from the old district while Genesee County was added. In 1972 the district was redrawn again, losing Lapeer County as well as a few outlying parts of Genesee County. In 1982 most of Lapeer county was put back in the 7th district. The northern tier of townships in Genesee County were moved to the 8th district. Burns Township in Shiawasee County and all the northern tier of townships in Oakland County with the exception of Brandon Township were also put in the district.\n\nAfter 1992 this old 7th district constituted a large part of the new 9th district.\n\nThe current 7th has no connection with the pre-1992 seventh congressional district. If populations and not just areas are considered, it is primarily an heir of the previous 3rd district. Most of the area came from the old 2nd district, and some of John Dingell's old 16th district was also included.\n\nAll of Eaton and Calhoun Counties were preserved from the 3rd to the 7th district. Half of the area of Barry County that had been in the old 3rd was retained. From the old 4th was drawn most of Branch County. The rest of Branch County and Hillsdale County, the south-western portion of Washtenaw County and western Lenawee County and most of Jackson County were taken from the old 2nd district. Even though most of the area of the old second was put in the new 7th, most of its population was moved into the 13th, From Ann Arbor to Plymouth, Livonia and Northville. The portion of Lenawee County that had been in the 16th was absorbed, and a small part of the Washtenaw County area of the 15th district and the part of the old 6th that had been in Jackson County. Thus the new 7th district incorporated areas from six old districts.\n\nThe 2002 redistricting is best seen as a shift from the 3rd district to the 2nd district legacy. With the loss of its quadrant in Barry County and a small section of Calhoun County the district lost affinity to the 3rd of yore. It took back the portion of Washtenaw County that had been lost to the 8th district, and shed the part of Washtenaw County that had come from the old 15th district. Although none of Wayne County was included in the new district, it did have Salem Township which not only borders Wayne County but is largely in a Wayne County-headquartered school district.\n\nIn the 2012 redistricting the district gained Monroe County as well as the portion of Washtenaw County around Saline.\n\n\n", "id": "7718750", "categories": ["Constituencies established in 1873", "Congressional districts of Michigan"], "title": "Michigan's 7th congressional district"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718774", "text": "Chris Morrissey\n\nChris Morrissey (born c. 1980) is an American musician, currently living in Brooklyn, New York. Morrissey plays the bass and has played and recorded with a number of bands:\n\n\n", "id": "7718774", "categories": ["American male bass guitarists", "Place of birth missing (living people)", "American bass guitarists", "1980s births", "Guitarists from Minnesota", "Living people", "21st-century American bass guitarists"], "title": "Chris Morrissey"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718775", "text": "Safa SC\n\nSafa Beirut Sporting Club () is a Lebanese football club based in Wata El-Museitbeh, Beirut. The club primarily receives its support from the Druze community. Founded in 1939, they became one of the most important teams in Asia after making it to the finals of the AFC Cup in 2008.\n\nThe club was founded under the name Safa' Beirut SC (Nadi al-Safa' al-Riyadi Beirut) in 1939, by 7 people: Maher Wahab, Anis Naaim, Hasib Al-Jerdi, Amin Haidar, Chafik Nader, Toufik Al-Zouhairy and Adib Haidar. They started playing football on a private field located in Wata El-Museitbeh, Beirut. The club's main interest was to practice the game officially.\n\nIn 1948, Safa' Beirut SC obtained the official membership and license from the government as a private association. In the same year, the club was affiliated to the Lebanese Football Association and was ranked within the Second Division. In 1961, Safa' Beirut SC was promoted to the First Division.\n\n\n\nSafa has important rivalries with Ansar and Nejmeh, both being based in Beirut. Safa also plays the \"Mountain Derby\" with Akhaa Ahli, as Akhaa is based in Aley, a city in Mount Lebanon, and Safa's support comes from the Druze community in Lebanon, who mainly live in the mountainous regions of the country.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7718775", "categories": ["1939 establishments in Lebanon", "Safa SC", "Football clubs in Lebanon"], "title": "Safa SC"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718788", "text": "Nepalese scripts\n\nThe expression Nepalese Scripts refers to alphabetic writing systems employed historically in Nepala Mandala by the indigenous Newars for primarily writing Nepalbhasa and for transcribing Sanskrit. There are also some claims they have also been used to write the Parbatiya (Khas) language but all Pahari languages were traditionally written with the Takri alphabet and now Devanagari.\n\nThe older alphabets, known as Nepal Lipi or Nepal script, were in widespread use from the 10th to the early 20th-century A.C.E., but have since been largely supplanted by the modern script known as Devanagari. Of the older scripts, about 50,000 manuscripts written in Nepal Lipi have been archived.\n\nOutside of Nepal, Brahmi scripts also have been used to write Sanskrit, Hindi, Maithili, Bengali and Braj Bhasha languages. They have reportedly been used to inscribe mantras on funerary markers as distant as Japan as well.\n\nNepal or Nepalese script appeared in the 10th century. The earliest instance is a manuscript entitled \"Lankavatara Sutra\" dated Nepal Era 28 (908 AD). Another early specimen is a palm-leaf manuscript of a Buddhist text the \"Prajnaparamita\", dated Nepal Era 40 (920 AD). One of the oldest manuscript of Ramayana, preserved till date, was written in Nepal Script in 1041.\n\nThe script has been used on stone and copper plate inscriptions, coins (Nepalese mohar), palm-leaf documents and Hindu and Buddhist manuscripts.\n\nAmong the different scripts based on Nepal script, Ranjana (meaning \"delightful\"), Bhujinmol (\"fly-headed\") and Prachalit (\"ordinary\") are the most common.\n\nRanjana is the most ornate among the scripts. It is most commonly used to write Buddhist texts and inscribe mantras on prayer wheels, shrines, temples, and monasteries. The popular Buddhist mantra \"Om mani padme hum\" (meaning (\"Hail to the jewel in the lotus\" in Sanskrit) is often written in Ranjana.\n\nBesides the Kathmandu Valley and the Himalayan region in Nepal, the Ranjana script is used for sacred purposes in Tibet, China, Japan, Korea, Mongolia, Bhutan, Sikkim and Ladakh.\n\nThe Jokhang Temple in Lhasa, Tibet is ornamented with mantras embossed in Ranjana script, and the panels under the eaves are numbered using Nepal Lipi.\n\nAmong the famed historical texts written in Nepal Lipi are \"Gopalarajavamsavali\", a history of Nepal, which appeared in 1389 AD, the Nepal-Tibet treaty of Nepal Era 895 (1775 AD) and a letter dated Nepal Era 535 (1415 AD) sent by Chinese Emperor Tai Ming to Shakti-simha-rama, a feudatory of Banepa.\n\nThe different scripts derived from Nepal script are as follows:\n\n\nNepalese scripts saw a widespread use for a thousand years in Nepal. In 1906, the Rana regime banned Nepal Bhasa, Nepal Era and Nepal Lipi from official use as part of its policy to subdue them, and the script fell into decline.\n\nAuthors were also encouraged to switch to Devanagari to write Nepal Bhasa because of the availability of moveable type for printing, and Nepal Lipi was pushed further into the background. However, the script continued to be used for religious and ceremonial purposes till the 1950s.\n\nAfter the Rana dynasty was overthrown and democracy established in 1951, restrictions on Nepal Bhasa were lifted. Attempts were made to study and revive the old scripts, and alphabet books were published. Hemraj Shakyavamsha published an alphabet book of 15 types of Nepalese alphabets including Ranjana, Bhujimol and Pachumol.\n\nIn 1952, a pressman Pushpa Ratna Sagar of Kathmandu had moveable type of Nepal script made in India. The metal type was used to print the dateline and the titles of the articles in \"Thaunkanhe\" monthly.\n\nIn 1989, the first book to be printed using a computer typeface of Nepal script, \"Prasiddha Bajracharyapinigu Sanchhipta Bibaran\" (\"Profiles of Renowned Bajracharyas\") by Badri Ratna Bajracharya, was published.\n\nToday, Nepal Lipi has gone out of general usage, but it is sometimes used in signage, invitation and greeting cards, letterheads, book and CD covers, product labels and the mastheads of newspapers. A number of private organizations are engaged in its study and promotion.\n\nNepal Lipi (with the name “Newa”) was approved for inclusion in Unicode 9.0.]\n\n", "id": "7718788", "categories": ["Newar", "Brahmic scripts", "Newar language", "Writing systems of Asia", "Writing systems"], "title": "Nepalese scripts"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718798", "text": "Progressive folk\n\nProgressive folk was originally a type of American folk music that pursued a progressive political agenda, but in the United Kingdom the term became attached to a musical subgenre. The latter describes a substyle of contemporary folk that draws from post-Bob Dylan folk music and adds new layers of musical and lyrical complexity, often incorporating various ethnic influences.\n\nThe original meaning of progressive folk came from its links to the progressive politics of the American folk revival of the 1930s, particularly through the work of musicologist Charles Seeger. Key figures in the development of progressive folk in America were Pete Seeger and Woody Guthrie, who influenced figures such as Bob Dylan and Joan Baez in the 1960s. All mixed progressive political messages with traditional folk music tunes and themes.\n\nIn Britain, one of the major strands that emerged from the short-lived skiffle craze of 1956-9 were acoustic artists who performed American progressive material. Vital in the development of progressive folk was the emergence of the American counterculture and British underground scenes of the mid-1960s. The term progressive began to be used by radio stations to describe psychedelic music, including pop, rock and folk, that emerged from this scene.\n\nThe first musical use of the term psychedelic is thought to have been by the New York-based folk group The Holy Modal Rounders on their version of 'Hesitation Blues', a popular blues standard, in 1964. Psychedelic music spread rapidly in the beat folk scenes of both the east and west coast of the mid-1960s. San Francisco produced bands such as Kaleidoscope, It's a Beautiful Day and Peanut Butter Conspiracy. From New York city's Greenwich Village came groups such as Jake and the Family Jewels and Cat Mother & the All Night Newsboys. Chicago's major contribution was H. P. Lovecraft. Many of these psychedelic folk groups followed the Byrds into folk rock from 1965, are now as a result more widely remembered, including Jefferson Airplane, Grateful Dead and Quicksilver Messenger Service.\n\nFrom the mid-1960s, partly as a result of the British Invasion, this trend ran in parallel in both America and Britain and as part of the inter-related folk, folk rock and rock scenes. Folk artists who were particularly significant included the Scottish performers Donovan, who combined influences of American artists like Bob Dylan with references to flower power, and the Incredible String Band, who from 1967 incorporated a range of influences into their acoustic based music, including medieval and eastern instruments. There was a brief flowering of British and Irish progressive folk in the late 1960s and early 1970s, with groups like the Third Ear Band and Quintessence following the eastern Indian musical and more abstract work by group such as Comus, Dando Shaft, Trees, Spyrogyra, Forest, and Jan Dukes De Grey.\n\nThe situation in Britain was made more complex by the second folk revival, which created a network of folk clubs across the country, mostly in urban centres, from the late 1950s. In the early 1960s much of the music performed in these venues was American traditional and progressive folk, but this was increasingly discouraged from the mid-1960s as British traditional music began to dominate 'policy clubs'. Most psychedelic folk artists, particularly in London, relied more heavily on coffee houses and clubs like UFO and Middle Earth as their venues, but a number of artists occupied a musical territory between traditional and progressive music. This was particularly notable with artists like Davy Graham, Martin Carthy, Bert Jansch and John Renbourn, who fused various styles of American music with English folk to create a distinctive form of fingerstyle guitar playing known as ‘folk baroque’. Using medieval, jazz and blues elements in their playing, this was an overt attempt to push British folk music into new territory, and can be seen as a forerunner of progressive rock. Perhaps the finest individual work in the genre was from early 1970s artists like Nick Drake, Tim Buckley and John Martyn.\n\nCountry folk emerged as a hybrid subgenre of progressive folk and country after Dylan's visit to Nashville to record \"Blonde on Blonde\" in 1966. Developing as a gentler form of country with more emphasis on song writing, it continued some of the political traditions of progressive folk, being taken up in the 1970s by artists such as John Denver and Emmylou Harris and more recently contributing to the development of the progressive country subgenre.\n\nIn the early 1970s, psychedelia began to fall out of fashion and those folk groups that had not already moved into different areas had largely disbanded. Although artists like Dylan and Baez continued their careers with considerable success in the 1970s as American folk music began to fragment with groups focusing on areas such as blues, bluegrass and oldtime, progressive folk began to disappear as a term and its major themes shifted into 'contemporary folk', focusing on new singer-songwriters using the coffee-house circuit, including such artists as Chris Castle, Steve Goodman, and John Prine.\n\nIn Britain, folk groups also tended to electrify, as did acoustic duo Tyrannosaurus Rex, which became the electric combo T. Rex. This was a continuation of a process by which progressive folk had considerable impact on mainstream rock. Others, probably influenced by the British folk rock pioneered by Fairport Convention and Steeleye Span from 1969, moved towards more traditional material, a category including Dando Shaft, Amazing Blondel, and Jack the Lad, an offshoot of northern progressive folk group Lindisfarne. Examples of bands that remained firmly on the border between progressive folk and progressive rock were the short lived (but later reunited) Comus and, more successfully, Renaissance, who combined folk and rock with classical elements. In the early 2010s, the band Moulettes was one of the most prominent progressive folk artists in the United Kingdom.\n\n", "id": "7718798", "categories": ["Contemporary folk subgenres"], "title": "Progressive folk"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718810", "text": "(179806) 2002 TD66\n\n(179806) (also written 2002 TD66) is a sub-kilometer asteroid, classified as near-Earth object of the Apollo group. It was discovered on 5 October 2002, by the LINEAR project at Lincoln Laboratory's ETS in Socorro, New Mexico. It was announced on 7 October 2002 and appeared later that day on the JPL current risk page.\n\nDue to the proximity of its orbit to Earth and its estimated size, this object has been classified as a potentially hazardous asteroid (PHA) by the Minor Planet Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts. In November 2006 there were 823 PHAs known. , there are 1261 PHAs known. was removed from the Sentry Risk Table on October 10, 2002. A Doppler observation has helped produce a well known trajectory with a condition code (Uncertainty Parameter U) of 0.\n\nBased on an absolute magnitude (H) of 20.2, the asteroid is estimated to be between 270 and 590 meters in diameter. Radar astronomy shows it is a contact binary asteroid with a diameter of 300 meters and a rotation period of 9.5 hours.\n\nOn February 26, 2008, passed from Earth. The asteroid also comes close to Venus, Mars, and dwarf planet Ceres.\n\n", "id": "7718810", "categories": ["Potentially hazardous asteroids", "Apollo asteroids", "Contact binary (asteroid)", "Discoveries by LINEAR", "Asteroids removed from the Sentry Risk Table"], "title": "(179806) 2002 TD66"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718820", "text": "Languages of Indonesia\n\nMore than 700 living languages are spoken in Indonesia. A major part of them belong to the Austronesian language family, while over 270 Papuan (non-Austronesian) languages are spoken in eastern Indonesia.. The official language is Indonesian (locally known as \"bahasa Indonesia\"), a standardized form of Malay, which serves as the lingua franca of the archipelago. The vocabulary of Indonesian borrows heavily from regional languages of Indonesia, such as Javanese, Sundanese and Minangkabau, as well as from Dutch, Sanskrit and Arabic. \n\nThe Indonesian language is primarily used in commerce, administration, education and the media. Most Indonesians speak other languages, such as Javanese, as their first language. Most books printed in Indonesia are written in the Indonesian language.\n\nSince Indonesia recognises only a single official language, other languages are not recognised either at the national level or the regional level, thus making Javanese the most widely spoken language without official status, with Sundanese the second in the list (excluding Chinese varieties).\n\nBelow is a chart of several Indonesian languages. Most of them belong to Austronesian languages family. While there have been misunderstandings on which ones should be classified as \"languages\" and which ones should be classified as \"dialects\", the chart confirms that most have similarities, yet are not mutually comprehensible. These languages are arranged according to the numbers of native speakers.\n\nThere are 726 languages spoken across the Indonesian archipelago in 2009 (dropped from 742 languages in 2007), the largest multilingual population in the world only after Papua New Guinea. Indonesian Papua, which is adjacent to Papua New Guinea, has the most languages in Indonesia. Based on the EGIDS classification used by Ethnologue (formerly the Summer Institute of Linguistics), 63 languages are dying (shown in red on the bar chart, subdivided into Moribund and Nearly Extinct, or Dormant), which is defined as \"The only fluent users (if any) are older than child-bearing age, so it is too late to restore natural intergenerational transmission through the home.\"\n\nIndonesia's Minister of Education and Culture Muhammad Nuh affirmed in January 2013 that the teaching of local languages as school subjects will be part of the national education curriculum. Nuh stated that much of the public worry about the teaching of local languages being left out of the curriculum is misplaced and that the new curriculum will be conveyed to them.\n\nDespite the Dutch presence in Indonesia for almost 350 years (parts of Indonesia were ruled by the Dutch East India Company and subsequently the whole of what is now Indonesia was in the Dutch East Indies), the Dutch language has no official status there and the small minority that can speak the language fluently are either educated members of the oldest generation, or employed in the legal profession, as certain law codes are still only available in Dutch.\n\nSeveral prominent languages spoken in Indonesia sorted by language family are:\n\n\nThere are many additional small families and isolates among the Papuan languages.\n\n\nIndonesian languages are generally not rendered in native-invented systems, but in scripts devised by speakers of other languages, that is, Tamil, Arabic, and Latin. Malay, for example, has a long history as a written language and has been rendered in Brahmic, Arabic, and Latin scripts. Javanese has been written in the Pallava script of South India, as well as their derivative (known as Kawi and Javanese), in an Arabic alphabet called \"pegon\" that incorporates Javanese sounds, and in the Latin script.\n\nChinese characters have never been used to write Indonesian languages, although Indonesian place-names, personal names, and names of trade goods appear in reports and histories written for China's imperial courts.\n\n\nEnglish translation:\n\n\n\n", "id": "7718820", "categories": ["Languages of Indonesia", "Indonesia-related lists"], "title": "Languages of Indonesia"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718873", "text": "Mansquito\n\nMansquito (also known as Mosquitoman) is a 2005 American made-for-television monster movie directed by Tibor Takács, and stars Corin Nemec, Musetta Vander and Matt Jordon. It shares many similarities with the 1986 adaptation of \"The Fly\", and was conceived by Ray Cannella, Manager of Program Acquisition for the Syfy Channel. He and other two colleagues began producing films for the channel feeling that they could do better than the films they bought from independent producers.\n\nDr. Jennifer Allen (Musetta Vander) in Baltimore, Maryland wants to find a cure for a disease known as the Gillen virus, a disease similar to, yet more deadly than, the \"Fire Rising virus.\" She and a colleague capture infected mosquitoes and give them small doses of radiation. She explains that the levels have to be exact because if the mosquitoes receive too much radiation, the results could be more devastating than the virus itself.\n\nA convict named Ray Erikson (Matt Jordan) joins Dr. Allen's program in exchange for his lifelong prison sentence. He takes a hostage and convinces Dr. Allen to open the door to the experiment room. The security guards open fire and cause an explosion that showers Ray and Dr. Allen with the chemicals and the genetically altered mosquitoes. Ray manages to flee the scene.\n\nHe begins to transform into the titular monster, a deformed chimera, half man, half mosquito, yet he manages to find his way to his ex-girlfriend's apartment, where the process continues. When the ex comes home, she finds it in ruins. She and Ray have a short, anxious conversation before Ray's transformation is complete and he kills her.\n\nMeanwhile, Dr. Allen returns home with her boyfriend, Baltimore Police Lieutenant Tom Randall (Corin Nemec). That evening, she notices her wrist is red and raw-looking. She thinks little of it, but by the next morning, it has spread to her entire arm. Later, while kissing Tom, she has a sudden craving for blood and bites him. He is called to Ray's girlfriend's apartment and leaves. Dr. Allen rushes into the bathroom to find her arm bleeding. She convulses, falls to the floor and her skin starts to bubble.\n\nTom arrives at the crime scene and is puzzled by the way Ray's girlfriend died. He is called to investigate another crime scene, where he encounters Mansquito. The monster seems unstoppable, until Tom shocks him with a stun gun, making him flee in pain. Tom's partner doesn't believe him at first but puts a bulletin out on the creature.\n\nAt the research station, Dr. Allen discovers she is also changing into a human-mosquito hybrid, but more slowly as she received a smaller dose than Ray. Mansquito appears but doesn't try to kill her, and after she faints, the monster leaves. Tom takes her to the hospital.\n\nThe doctor wants to give Dr. Allen a blood transfusion to slow down the transformation, but she replies that nothing can stop the mutation. She believes the monster sensed that she is turning into a creature like him and that once the transformation is complete, he will want to mate with her. Outside, a guard falls victim to the monster and Tom leaves to investigate. Mansquito undergoes another transformation, this time growing wings.\n\nDr. Allen also undergoes another transformation and alerts the officers of Mansquito's arrival. They fail to stop him. The monster heads for Dr. Allen, but she manages to escape. Tom fires a rocket launcher at the oxygen tanks behind Mansquito and assumes the creature was killed by the explosion, but that is not the case.\n\nMeanwhile, back at the lab, Dr. Allen undergoes yet another transformation and releases the last batch of genetically altered mosquitoes, which have been perfected. Tom arrives and Dr. Allen tells him that Mansquito is still alive. She tries to commit suicide by stabbing herself with a syringe, because without a mate, Mansquito will die.\n\nThe monster arrives and Tom fights him to no avail. Dr. Allen is seriously injured by Mansquito, who is now focused on killing her rather than mating with her. Tom uses the stun gun and once again, it works. Seeing this, Dr. Allen breaks an electrical line and electrocutes Mansquito, sacrificing herself. Tom writes a report about the incident and the Gillen virus is wiped out by the altered mosquitoes.\n\nThe film was released on DVD by Millennium on May 17, 2005.\n\nDread Central awarded the film a score of 3 out of 5. Noting the film's shortcomings and rudimentary plot but complimented the film's creature design, and gore effects, stating \"Mansquito is a fun throwback to the b-movies of yore that’s more entertaining than it has any right to be. Perhaps it was just dumb luck or maybe the law of averages finally caught up with them but the Sci-Fi Channel finally produced a winner.\" Chris Carle from IGN gave the film a negative review, calling it \"a lurching mess of silly logic, odd casting, bad CG and 1960's Japan-quality monster suit effects.\" \"HorrorNews.net\" while noting the film's faults, the reviewer felt that the makers did a decent enough job with the film to make it enjoyable. Felix Vasquez from \"Cinema Crazed\" gave the film a mostly positive review, writing, \"This is another one of those so bad they’re good films with a really ridiculous concept, but overall you can’t help but like it a lot. With some great special effects, good gore, hilarious moments, and bad acting, you can’t take this too seriously. Enter with an open mind and you’ll enjoy it, like I did.\" David Cornelius from \"eFilmCritic\" awarded the film 2/5 stars, writing, \"It pains me to say that none of this is nearly as fun as it should have been. Any movie with a plot this insane must, by all accounts, be either outrageously stupid or deliciously, self-consciously entertaining. \"Mansquito\" is neither. Aside from a few moments of uncontrollable idiocy (mostly involving the grand miscasting of nice guy Nemic as badass cop), there's very little here that manages to do anything other than bore.\"\n\n", "id": "7718873", "categories": ["2005 films", "2005 television films", "2000s science fiction films", "2005 horror films", "American films", "American monster movies", "Syfy original films", "Nu Image films", "English-language films", "American science fiction television films", "2000s monster movies", "Horror television films", "Films shot in Bulgaria"], "title": "Mansquito"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718874", "text": "Boisrond-Tonnerre\n\nLouis Félix Mathurin Boisrond-Tonnerre (born 6 June 1776; executed 24 October 1806), better known as simply Boisrond-Tonnerre, was a Haitian writer and historian who is best known for having served as Jean-Jacques Dessalines' secretary. Boisrond-Tonnerre was educated in Paris until 179,8 when he returned to Haiti (Daut 56). He is the author of the 1804 Independence Act of Haiti, which formally declared Haiti's independence from the colonial rule of France. He is also known for his work chronicling the Haitian Revolution, \"Mémoires pour Servir à l'Histoire d'Haïti\".\n\nBoisrond-Tonnerre was born Louis Boisrond in Torbeck in southwest Haiti. He acquired the name \"Tonnerre\", French for \"thunder\", as an infant when his cradle was hit by lightning. His father, a carpenter named Mathurin Boisrond (see Daut below), amazed that his infant son was unharmed, gave him the name \"Tonnerre\". Boisrond-Tonnerre studied in France before returning to Haiti, where he took part in the Haitian Revolution. A supporter and secretary of the revolutionary general Jean-Jacques Dessalines, Boisrond-Tonnerre supported the 1804 Haiti massacre of all whites remaining on the post-revolutionary island. Voicing his support, Boisrond-Tonnerre stated, \"For our declaration of independence, we should have the skin of a white man for parchment, his skull for an inkwell, his blood for ink, and a bayonet for a pen!\"\n\nHowever, Boisront-Tonnerre became a victim of post-revolutionary infighting and was executed in October 1806. According to the Haitian author Christophe Phillippe Charles, Boisrond-Tonnerre scribbled the following quatrain on the walls of his cell before his execution on either the night of 23 or 24 October 1806:\nHumide et froid séjour fait par et pour le crime<br>\nOù le crime en riant immole sa victime<br>\nQue peuvent inspirer tes fers et tes barreaux<br>\nQuand un coeur pur y goûte un innocent repos? (Christophe 35).\n\"Translation\" :\nCold and humid internment crime has both fashioned and formed <br>\nWhere crime, laughing, immolates and consumes its servant <br>\nBut what [fear] can your iron bars hope to inspire <br>\nWhen a pure heart wrests from them a peaceful rest? (Christophe 35)\n\n", "id": "7718874", "categories": ["1776 births", "Haitian people of Mulatto descent", "Haitian historians", "1806 deaths", "Haitian male writers"], "title": "Boisrond-Tonnerre"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718883", "text": "Walter García\n\nWalter García (born March 14, 1984 in Buenos Aires) is an Argentine footballer, who plays for CD Olimpia.\n\nGarcía started his career with Argentinos Juniors in 2001, but in 2002 the club suffered relegation to the Argentine 2nd division. After staying with the club for a further season he returned to the Primera with Club Atlético San Lorenzo de Almagro one of the top five clubs (\"cinco grandes\") in Argentine football. García was a key player for San Lorenzo anchoring the clubs back line, appearing in 61 league matches. He also participated in the 2004 Copa Sudamericana in which he started all 4 matches and the 2005 Copa Libertadores for San Lorenzo appearing in 4 matches and scoring one goal. His play did not go unnoticed as he began to receive interest from various European clubs. Sevilla FC were interested in acquiring García on loan, however this offer was rejected by San Lorenzo who accepted an offer of $2 million from FC Rubin Kazan for his transfer.\n\nIn 2006, he played for FC Rubin Kazan in Russia and later Calcio Catania in Italy, before returning to Argentina to play for Quilmes in 2007. After being relegated with his team García stayed with Quilmes to play in the 2007-08 Primera B Nacional season. Following his stay with Quilmes, García joined Nacional in Uruguay. After not featuring for the club he received interest from various clubs including Club América of Mexico and Deportivo Quito of Ecuador. He signed with New York Red Bulls in August 2009.\n\nHe left Red Bulls at the end of 2009 season, having played just 1 game for the team, and had a trial at English side Leeds United with hopes of securing a contract at the club in the January 2010 transfer window. Leeds manager Simon Grayson decided that after Garcia played for Leeds in a behind closed doors friendly in which Leeds conceded 4 goals that Garcia was no better than any of the centre backs currently at the club, and his trial was ended.\n\nGarcía represented Argentina at the 2001 FIFA U-17 World Championship. He was also capped for the Argentina Under-20 side in the 2003 FIFA World Youth Championship and the 2003 South American Youth Championship which was won by the Argentine team.\n\n", "id": "7718883", "categories": ["Expatriate footballers in Italy", "Argentine Primera División players", "Guillermo Brown footballers", "Liga Nacional de Fútbol de Honduras players", "Club Deportivo Olimpia footballers", "Association football defenders", "Argentine people of Spanish descent", "Argentinos Juniors footballers", "Calcio Catania players", "Living people", "Serie A players", "People from Rosario, Santa Fe", "Club Nacional de Football players", "FC Rubin Kazan players", "San Lorenzo footballers", "1984 births", "Pan American Games gold medalists for Argentina", "Argentina under-20 international footballers", "Pan American Games medalists in football", "Argentine footballers", "Expatriate footballers in Russia", "Quilmes footballers", "New York Red Bulls players", "Expatriate soccer players in the United States", "Major League Soccer players", "Argentine expatriate footballers", "Russian Premier League players"], "title": "Walter García"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718894", "text": "Randy Hillier\n\nRandall George \"Randy\" Hillier (born March 30, 1960) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey defenceman.\n\nAs a youth, Hillier played in the 1973 Quebec International Pee-Wee Hockey Tournament with a minor ice hockey team from Toronto. He was drafted by the Boston Bruins in 1980 while playing for the Sudbury Wolves of the OHL. He served the Bruins during his first three NHL seasons, but was best known for his seven seasons with the Pittsburgh Penguins. He was a member of the Pittsburgh team which won the 1991 Stanley Cup. He went on to become the assistant coach of the Penguins during the 1998 and 2002–04 seasons. He currently works for an investment company in Pittsburgh.\n", "id": "7718894", "categories": ["Canadian ice hockey defencemen", "Boston Bruins draft picks", "Ice hockey people from Ontario", "Living people", "21st-century Canadian politicians", "1960 births", "Erie Blades players", "Sudbury Wolves players", "New York Islanders players", "Pittsburgh Penguins coaches", "Baltimore Skipjacks players", "Pittsburgh Penguins players", "Boston Bruins players", "Buffalo Sabres players", "Springfield Indians players", "Sportspeople from Toronto", "Stanley Cup champions"], "title": "Randy Hillier"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718899", "text": "HLA-A\n\nHLA-A is a group of human leukocyte antigens (HLA) that are coded for by the HLA-A locus, which is located at human chromosome 6p21.3. HLA is a major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigen specific to humans. HLA-A is one of three major types of human MHC class I cell surface receptors. The others are HLA-B and HLA-C. The receptor is a heterodimer, and is composed of a heavy α chain and smaller β chain. The α chain is encoded by a variant HLA-A gene, and the β chain (β-microglobulin) is an invariant β microglobulin molecule. The β microglobulin protein is coded for by a separate region of the human genome.\n\nMHC Class I molecules such as HLA-A are part of a process that presents short polypeptides to the immune system. These polypeptides are typically 7-11 amino acids in length and originate from proteins being expressed by the cell. There are two classes of polypeptide that can be presented by an HLA protein: those that are supposed to be expressed by the cell (self) and those of foreign derivation (non-self). Under normal conditions cytotoxic T cells, which normally patrol the body in the blood, \"read\" the peptide presented by the complex. T cells, if functioning properly, only bind to non-self peptides. If binding occurs, a series of events is initiated culminating in cell death via apoptosis. In this manner, the human body eliminates any cells infected by a virus or expressing proteins they shouldn't be (e.g. cancerous cells).\n\nFor humans, as in most mammalian populations, MHC Class I molecules are extremely variable in their primary structure, and HLA-A is ranked among the genes in humans with the fastest-evolving coding sequence. As of December 2013, there are 2432 known HLA-A alleles coding for 1740 active proteins and 117 null proteins. This level of variation on MHC Class I is the primary cause of transplant rejection, as random transplantation between donor and host is unlikely to result in a matching of HLA-A, B or C antigens. Evolutionary biologists also believe that the wide variation in HLAs is a result of a balancing act between conflicting pathogenic pressures. Greater variety of HLAs decreases the probability that the entire population will be wiped out by a single pathogen as certain individuals will be highly resistant to each pathogen. The effect of HLA-A variation on HIV/AIDS progression is discussed below.\n\nThe HLA-A gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 6 and encodes the larger, α-chain, constituent of HLA-A. Variation of HLA-A α-chain is key to HLA function. This variation promotes genetic diversity in the population. Since each HLA has a different affinity for peptides of certain structures, greater variety of HLAs means greater variety of antigens to be 'presented' on the cell surface, enhancing the likelihood that a subset of the population will be resistant to a given foreign invader. This decreases the likelihood that a single pathogen has the capability to wipe out the entire human population.\n\nEach individual can express up to two types of HLA-A, one from each of their parents. Some individuals will inherit the same HLA-A from both parents, decreasing their individual HLA diversity; however, the majority of individuals will receive two different copies of HLA-A. This same pattern follows for all HLA groups. In other words, every single person can only express either one or two of the 2432 known HLA-A alleles.\n\nAll HLAs are assigned a name by the World Health Organization Naming Committee for Factors of the HLA System. This name is organized to provide the most information about the particular allele while keeping the name as short as possible. An HLA name looks something like this:\n\nHLA-A*02:01:01:02L\n\nAll alleles receive at least a four digit classification (HLA-A*02:12). The A signifies which HLA gene the allele belongs to. There are many HLA-A alleles, so that classification by serotype simplifies categorization. The next pair of digits indicates this assignment. For example, HLA-A*02:02, HLA-A*02:04, and HLA-A*02:324 are all members of the A2 serotype (designated by the *02 prefix). This group is the primary factor responsible for HLA compatibility. All numbers after this cannot be determined by serotyping and are designated through gene sequencing. The second set of digits indicates what HLA protein is produced. These are assigned in order of discovery and as of December 2013 there are 456 different HLA-A*02 proteins known (assigned names HLA-A*02:01 to HLA-A*02:456). The shortest possible HLA name includes both of these details. Each extension beyond that signifies synonymous mutations within the coding region and mutations outside the coding region. The interpretation of the extensions is covered in greater detail in current HLA naming system.\n\nThe protein coded for by the HLA-A gene is 365 amino acids long and weighs roughly 41,000 Daltons (Da). It contains 8 exons. \n\nThe HLA-A signal peptide is a series of hydrophobic amino acids present at the N-terminus of the protein that directs it to the endoplasmic reticulum where the remaining seven domains are translated. The three α domains form the binding groove that holds a peptide for presentation to CD8+ t-cells. The transmembrane region is the region that is embedded in the phospholipid bilayer surrounding the ER lumen. The HLA-A protein is a single-pass transmembrane protein. In other words, the first four domains of the protein are inside the ER lumen, while the last three domains are present outside the lumen, giving the protein the orientation required for proper function. The last three domains of the protein form a tail of primarily β-sheets that remains in the cell's cytosol.\nOnce the HLA-A protein is completely translated, it must be folded into the proper shape. A molecular chaperone protein called calnexin and an enzyme called ERp57 assist in the folding process. Calnexin holds the HLA-A heavy chain while Erp57 catalyzes disulfide bonds between the heavy chain and the light, β-microglobulin chain. This bond induces a conformational change in the heavy chain, forming the binding groove. Calnexin then dissociates with the complex, now referred to as a peptide loading complex, and is replaced by calreticulin, another chaperone protein. Short peptides are continually transported from around the cell into the ER lumen by a specialized transport protein called TAP. TAP then binds to the peptide loading complex along with another protein, called tapasin. At this point the peptide loading complex consists of HLA-A (heavy chain), β-microglobulin (light chain), an ERp57 enzyme, calreticulin chaperone protein, TAP (with a bound peptide fragment), and tapasin. Tapasin increases the stability of TAP, in addition to stabilizing the entire peptide loading complex. At this point TAP releases the peptide it transported into the ER lumen. The proximity of the HLA-A binding groove to TAP is ensured by the peptide loading complex. This increases the likelihood that the peptide will find the groove. If the peptide's affinity for the HLA-A protein is great enough, it binds in the groove. Research suggests that tapasin may actively load peptides from TAP into the HLA-A complex while also holding class I molecules in the ER lumen until a high affinity peptide has been bound.\n\nAfter a peptide of high enough affinity has bonded to the class I MHC, calreticulin, ERp57, TAP, and tapasin release the molecule. At this point the class I complex consists of an HLA-A protein bonded to a β-microglobulin and a short peptide. It is still anchored in the ER membrane by the transmembrane domain. At some point the ER will receive a signal and the portion of the membrane holding the complex will bud off and be transported to the golgi bodies for further processing. From the golgi bodies, the complex is transported, again via vesicle transport, to the cell membrane. This is the point at which the orientation mentioned previously becomes important. The portion of the HLA-A complex holding the peptide must be on the exterior surface of the cell membrane. This is accomplished by vesicle fusion with the cell membrane.\n\nMHC Class I molecules present small peptides, typically 7-10 amino acids in length, to the immune system. A glycoprotein called CD8 binds to residues 223-229 in the α3 domain of HLA-A and this glycoprotein stabilizes interactions between the t-cell receptor on cytotoxic (CD8+) T-lymphocytes and the Class I MHC. The T-cell receptor also has the potential to bind to the peptide being presented by the MHC. In a properly functioning immune system, only t-cells that do not bind self peptides are allowed out of the thymus, thus, if a T-cell binds to the peptide, it must be a foreign or abnormal peptide. The t-cell then initiates apoptosis, or programmed cell death. This process can happen as quickly as 5 minutes after initial foreign antigen presentation, although typically it takes several hours for death to become apparent. This process is the basis of acquired immunity and serves as the primary defense against viruses and other intracellular pathogens.\n\nBy the 1960s, it became evident that factors on donated organs and tissues often resulted in destruction of the donated tissue by the host's immune system. MHCs were originally discovered as a result of this observation (see history of HLAs for more details). There are two types of peptide presenting complexes, Class I and Class II MHCs. Each of these has multiple HLA genes, of which HLA-A is but one. There are three major HLAs that should be matched between donors and recipients. They are HLA-A, HLA-B, (both Class I MHCs) and HLA-DR (a Class II MHC). If the two tissues have the same genes coding for these three HLAs, the likelihood and severity of rejection is minimized.\n\nHLAs serve as the sole link between the immune system and what happens inside cells. Thus any alteration on the part of the HLA, be it decreased binding to a certain peptide or increased binding to a certain peptide, is expressed as, respectively, increased susceptibility to disease or decreased susceptibility to disease. In other words, certain HLAs may be incapable of binding any of the short peptides produced by proteolysis of pathogenic proteins. If this is the case, there is no way for the immune system to tell that a cell is infected. Thus the infection can proliferate largely unchecked. It works the other way too. Some HLAs bind pathogenic peptide fragments with very high affinity. This in essence \"supercharges\" their immune system in regards to that particular pathogen, allowing them to manage an infection that might otherwise be devastating.\n\nOne of the most researched examples of differential immune regulation of a pathogen is that of human immunodeficiency virus. Because HIV is an RNA virus, it mutates incredibly quickly. This changes the peptides produced via proteolysis, which changes the peptides able to be presented to the immune system by the infected cell's MHCs. Any virus with a mutation that creates a peptide with high affinity for a particular HLA is quickly killed by the immune system, and thus does not survive and that high affinity peptide is no longer produced. However, it turns out that even HIV has some conserved regions in its genome, and if a HLA is capable of binding to a peptide produced from a conserved region, there is little the HIV can do to avoid immune detection and destruction. This is the principle behind HLA-mediated differential HIV loads.\n\nWith over 2000 variations of the HLA-A coded MHC, it is difficult to determine the impact of all variants upon HIV loads. However, a select few have been implicated. HLA-A*30 has been shown to decrease viral load to less than 10,000 copies/cubic millimeter, considered quite low. On the other hand, HLA-A*02 has been implicated in high viral load (greater than 100,000 copies/cubic millimeter) when associated with HLA-B*45. Additionally, the haplotypes HLA-A*23-C*07 and HLA-A*02-C*16 typically expressed increased viral loads within the sample population of Zambians. One of the most effective HIV-inhibiting haplotypes was HLA-A*30-C*03 while one of the least effective was HLA-A*23*B*14. In summation, HLA-A*23 was highly correlated with increased HIV load among the sample population, although it is important to note that across samples of differing ethnicity this correlation decreases significantly.\n\nAlthough classification of the effect of individual HLA genes and alleles on the presence of HIV is difficult, there are still some strong conclusions that can be made. Individuals who are homozygous in one or more Class I HLA genes typically progress to AIDS much more rapidly than heterozygotes. In some homozygous individuals the rate of progression is double that of heterozygotes. This differential progression is correlated fairly tightly with the degree of heterozygosity. In summation, certain HLA-A alleles are associated with differing viral loads in HIV infected patients; however, due to the diversity amongst those alleles, it is difficult to classify each and every allele's impact upon immune regulation of HIV. Nevertheless, it is possible to correlate heterozygosity in HLA-A alleles to decreased rate of progression to AIDS.\n\nNot only do certain HLA alleles prescribe increased or decreased resistance to HIV, but HIV is able to alter HLA expression, and does so selectively leading to reduced elimination by natural killer cells (NK cells). Research has shown that HIV downregulates Class I MHC expression in infected cells. However, doing so indiscriminately opens up the opportunity for attack by NK cells, because NK cells respond to downregulation of HLA-C and HLA-E. Obviously, this mechanism has put selective pressure on the HIV virus. Thus, HIV has evolved the capability to downregulate HLA-A and HLA-B without significantly disturbing the expression of HLA-C and HLA-E. A protein coded for by the HIV genome, negative regulatory factor (Nef), induces this change by binding to the cytoplasmic tail of the Class I MHC while it is still in the endoplasmic reticulum or occasionally while it is in the early stages of trafficking through the golgi bodies. This complex of MHC and Nef then causes adaptor protein 1 (AP-1) to direct the MHC to the lysosomes for degradation instead of to the cell membrane where it normally functions. In addition to selective HLA downregulation, negative regulatory factor (Nef) enables HIV to downregulate CD4 and CD8. These glycoproteins are essential for, respectively, helper t-cell and cytotoxic t-cell binding to MHCs. Without these cofactors, both types of t-cells are less likely to bind to HLAs and initiate apoptosis, even if the HLA is expressing an HIV derived (non-self) peptide. Both of these proteins are also targeted at their cytoplasmic tail domain. The combination of these abilities greatly enhances HIV's ability to avoid detection by the immune system.\n\nHLA-A is one particular group of the human Class I MHCs. It consists of several hundred different genes and several thousand variant alleles. HLA-A is critical to the cytotoxic t-cell controlled immune response to viruses and other intracellular pathogens. Because each HLA-A gene has a high affinity for slightly different peptides, certain HLA-As are associated with increased risk, more rapid progression, and/or increased severity of many diseases. For similar reasons, HLA-A matching is essential to successful tissue transplants.\n\n", "id": "7718899", "categories": ["HLA-A alleles"], "title": "HLA-A"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718900", "text": "USCGC Escanaba (WMEC-907)\n\nUSCGC \"Escanaba\" (WMEC-907) is a United States Coast Guard medium endurance cutter based in Boston, Massachusetts. Her keel was laid on April 1, 1983 at Robert Derecktor Shipyard Incorporated, Middletown, Rhode Island. She was launched February 6, 1985 and is named for her predecessor, , which was named for the Escanaba River and Escanaba, Michigan. \"Escanaba\" (WMEC-907) was formally commissioned August 29, 1987 in Grand Haven, Michigan, the home port of her predecessor.\n\nThe first \"Escanaba\" was sunk by either a mine or enemy torpedo on June 13, 1943, during World War II's Battle of the Atlantic, while escorting a convoy off Newfoundland. There were only two survivors out of the 105-man crew.\n\nA boarding party from \"Escanaba\" was engaged by the crew of a suspected drug smuggling go-fast boat on 14 September 2010. The go-fast escaped when it entered Nicaraguan waters, but no Coast Guard personnel were injured. \n\nThe \"Escanaba\" participated in the 2017 Joint Interagency Task Force South with various other naval forces. During the exercise the \"Escanaba\" interdicted 2 smuggling vessels, the cutter also participated in numerous exercises at sea focusing on various warfare areas including maritime interdiction operations, naval gun-fire support, tactical maneuvering and formation steaming, and search and rescue.\n\nBetween the 20th and 21st of May, 2019, \"Escanaba\" interdicted three small vessels in the Mona Pass carrying 68 migrants attempting to reach Puerto Rico from the Dominican Republic. . The first two vessels were detected by the crew of a U.S. Customs and Border Protection DHC-8 maritime patrol aircraft on the night of 20 May, 2019. The first boat was located 43 nautical miles north of Aguadilla, Puerto Rico, while the second was detected approximately 15 nautical miles northwest of Desecheo Island, Puerto Rico. Both vessels were transiting the Mona Pass without navigational lights. Coast Guard Watchstanders in Sector San Juan diverted the \"Escanaba\" to interdict the suspect vessels. Shortly thereafter, the \"Escanaba\" interdicted a 20-foot makeshift boat with 19 adult migrants onboard. The \"Escanaba\" crew embarked 14 men and five women, who claimed Dominican nationality. Following the first interdiction, the \"Escanaba\" proceeded to intercept the second migrant vessel. Once on scene, an \"Escanaba\" small boat crew and a CBP Caribbean Air and Marine interceptor surface unit stopped a 25-foot makeshift boat with 21 adult migrants onboard. The \"Escanaba\" crew embarked 18 men and three women of Dominican nationality. The third vessel to be interdicted was detected by the crew of a CBP DHC-8 maritime patrol aircraft on the night of 21 May, 2019, approximately 20 nautical miles northwest of Aguadilla. The \"Escanaba\" crew interdicted the 30-foot makeshift boat and safely embarked 28 adult migrants, 21 men and seven women of Dominican nationality, as well as a Haitian man. 66 of the migrants were transferred to a Dominican Republic Navy vessel for repatriation. Two migrants facing felony criminal charges for attempted illegal reentry into a U.S. territory, one Dominican Republic man and one Haitian man, were transferred to USCGC Richard Dixon (WPB-1113) for further transfer to Ramey Sector Border Patrol agents in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico.\n\n", "id": "7718900", "categories": ["United States Navy Michigan-related ships", "Ships of the United States Coast Guard", "Famous-class cutters", "1985 ships"], "title": "USCGC Escanaba (WMEC-907)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718914", "text": "Kane (video game)\n\nKane is a multi-section action game published by Mastertronic for the Commodore 64 in 1986. It was ported to the Acorn Electron, Amstrad CPC, BBC Micro, ZX Spectrum, and the Commodore 16 and Plus/4. The game is set in the Wild West, and its name is a reference to the main character of the film \"High Noon\". It consists of four distinct scenes, although some versions only contain two. A sequel was released in 1988.\n\nThe player takes the role of sheriff of the town of Kane. The game is split into four levels, two of which are shooting games using an on-screen target and two of which are side-scrolling action sequences on horseback. Only the shooting levels are present in all versions of the game. These may be played separately in the practice mode (with only one try given), but in order to complete and win the game, they must be played successively. The progress in the first scene defines the tries given in the next scenes.\n\nScene 1: The player controls a target and must shoot birds with a bow and arrow in order to trade with the Indians. The birds appear at varying altitude from the left and fly horizontally to the right. At higher difficulty levels the speed also varies. The player starts with ten arrows. As the arrows take time to reach the target and the birds are moving, the player must anticipate the position the birds will be when the arrow reaches them. If the shot is successful, the arrow returns to the quiver but arrows that miss are lost. It is possible to take down more than one bird with a single shot if the falling bird hits another as it plummets. The player can kill no more than forty birds or no more than forty birds can be let away (a tally of each is kept on screen). After the limit is reached or the quiver is empty, the player proceeds to the next scene, provided he has killed enough birds to trade for at least one 'peace token'. The number of birds required for a token depends on the difficulty level, beginning with three. The tokens earned in this scene act as the lives for the following scenes.\n\nScene 2: The player is on horseback and must ride to the town of Kane in a set time limit. The player must canter left to right or gallop to overcome wide obstacles. There are a number of obstacles (bushes, rocks, etc.) that the player must avoid by jumping over. The peace tokens are spent if the horse collides with an obstacle, and if the last medal spent the rider gives up and it is game over.\n\nScene 3: When the player reaches the town he is ambushed by outlaws. The player controls the aim of a revolver, but unlike the first scene, the character on screen also moves left and right with the aim movement. The outlaws appear from cover at varying positions in the town and shoot at the player. The player must shoot ten outlaws, avoiding being shot himself. At higher difficulty levels the bandits are quicker and more accurate. The players' revolver has six bullets. At any time the player can move to the rightmost position to reload the weapon, but he is still vulnerable when reloading. The peace tokens are spent if the player is shot.\n\nScene 4: The player is on horseback again and must catch a moving train, this time moving from right to left. The train is travelling at the horse's canter speed so the player must gallop faster than train to reach the steam-engine and stop the train. As in scene 2, the horse must jump obstacles. These are more diverse and complicated and require a perfect knowledge of their order. At higher levels the player starts further from the engine and has to gallop longer. The peace tokens are spent if the horse collides with an obstacle.\n\nAfter successfully completing the scenes, the game then repeats with greater difficulty.\n\nThe game was first released on the Commodore 64 in early 1986. It was then ported to Amstrad CPC and ZX Spectrum, featuring all four scenes, and Acorn Electron, BBC Micro and Commodore 16/Plus/4 with only the shooting scenes included (scenes 1 and 3 in the original game). Despite this, the BBC/Electron inlay gives instructions for all four scenes. This was corrected on the C16/Plus 4 inlay. All releases were in Mastertronic's £1.99 range.\n\nReviews for the game were mixed, possibly reflecting the relative quality of the different versions of the game. The original version on the C64 was given a generally positive review in \"Zzap!64\" with particular praise being given to the sampled sound effects and animation of the main sprites (although they alleged that the main character is stolen from \"Impossible Mission\"). The music comes in for criticism with the backgrounds and short nature of the game also being questioned but the game is recommended as \"worth every penny of the measly two quid asking price\" with an overall score of 63%. In direct contrast, their review of the C16 version in the Zzap!C16 supplement, the background graphics are praised but they claim \"the movement of the main sprite leaves a little to be desired\" giving an overall score of 48%. The Amstrad version (which is the most similar to the original) was particularly well received, scoring 70% in both Amstrad Action and Amtix!.\n\nThe Spectrum version gained less favourable reviews. \"Your Sinclair\" was particularly critical, giving a score of only 3/10, complaining of the \"luridly coloured\" background graphics and the \"dreadfully repetitive\" gameplay. Graham Taylor of Sinclair User could find only the character animation worthy of praise saying \"the rest stinks\", giving a score of 2/5. Crash gave a slightly higher score of 54% but were still mostly dismissive and did not recommend the game, claiming it was inferior to the original: \"Mastertronic seem to have taken their time translating this to the Spectrum - and to be honest they shouldn't have bothered\".\n\nJon Revis of \"Electron User\" was also unimpressed with the Acorn version, criticising the unresponsive controls and especially the fact that scenes 2 and 4, as described in the inlay, are missing from the game: \"It's a pity the programmer didn't read [the inlay]. The game may only cost £1.99 but I can't help feeling Mastertronic will receive a few letters of complaint about this one\". The game was given a score of 4/10 for playability but an overall score of 6/10.\n\n\"Kane 2\" was released in 1988 for the C64 but was not ported to any other machines. It is very similar to the first game with almost identical graphics and gameplay. Scene 1 is a riding and shooting level, scene 2 is a shooting level (like scene 3 in the first game), scene 3 is a challenge to tame a bronco and scene 4 is a riding level. The lack of improvement over two years after the original lead to negative reviews. \"Zzap!64\" gave a score of 33% and said \"It's not abysmal, it's just that it doesn't really approach the standards required of a good budget program these days. \"Kane\" was good for its time, but in mid 1988 \"Kane II\" just doesn't appeal in the same way\".\n\n", "id": "7718914", "categories": ["Commodore 64 games", "Action video games", "Commodore 16 and Plus/4 games", "Amstrad CPC games", "ZX Spectrum games", "Mastertronic games", "BBC Micro and Acorn Electron games", "1986 video games"], "title": "Kane (video game)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718919", "text": "Talaat Sadat\n\nTalaat Sadat (; February 26, 1954 – November 20, 2011) was an Egyptian politician, lawyer and former political prisoner. He was the nephew of former Egyptian president Anwar Sadat.\n\nTalaat was arrested on 4 October 2006 after giving an interview in which he implicated Egyptian military forces in his uncle's 1981 assassination. His trial by military authorities ended on 31 October with a conviction for defaming the Egyptian armed forces, resulting in a one-year prison sentence. His arrest and conviction was criticized by the United States State Department.\n\nFollowing the Egyptian Revolution of 2011, even though he was in demonstrations calling for dissolution of the National Democratic Party for its corruption of Egyptian political life, he was selected as the party's new chairman following the resignation of Former Egyptian President, Hosni Mubarak from the party.\n\nHowever, on 16 April 2011, the NDP was dissolved by the courts and its assets were ordered to be handed over to the government. Then he began to establish the National Party of Egypt shortly before his death.\n\nHe died on 20 November 2011 at 10 AM of a heart attack at the age of 57 at National Commercial Bank hospital in Alqutamya.\n", "id": "7718919", "categories": ["2011 deaths", "Egyptian politicians", "1954 births", "Egyptian prisoners and detainees"], "title": "Talaat Sadat"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718940", "text": "Kuwait Emir Cup\n\nThe Kuwait Amir/Emir Cup (Arabic: كأس أمير الكويت) is a Kuwaiti football competition created in 1962. The Emir Cup, also called kass el ameer, is the last football competition held in the Kuwaiti football season. It is considered the most valuable cup.\nAl Arabi SC is the only team to go to the final 11 consecutive times since 1962 up to 1973 holding the record.\n\nThe teams who also won the Kuwaiti Premier League are listed below in green:\n\n", "id": "7718940", "categories": ["Kuwait Amir Cup", "National association football cups", "Football cup competitions in Kuwait"], "title": "Kuwait Emir Cup"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718982", "text": "Taktisches Luftwaffengeschwader 74\n\nTaktisches Luftwaffengeschwader 74 (74th Tactical Air Force Wing), formerly known as Jagdgeschwader 74 (JG 74) (74th Fighter Wing), is an aviation unit of the German Air Force, based on Neuburg Air Base in Bavaria since 1961. On 1 October 2013, the unit was renamed in the course of adaptations to the new structure of the German Air Force.\n\nJG 74 provides air defence duties for southern Germany. The wing operates two squadrons of Eurofighter Typhoons, the \"Falken\" (Falcons) squadron and the \"Viva Zapata\" squadron.\n\nJG 74 was activated as the last West German fighter wing on 5 May 1961. It was equipped with the F-86K Sabre interceptor and first based at Leipheim in 1960 as \"JG 75\". It moved to Neuburg Air Base a short time later after this base had been opened and was renamed JG 74. In the period from 1964/66 JG 74 received the F-104G Starfighter. The Starfighter proved to be a troublesome aircraft for the Luftwaffe, which lost 292 of 916 Starfighters, 116 pilots died. JG 74 also lost several of them until the wing converted to the F-4F Phantom II in 1974.\n\nThe F-4F was a downgraded F-4E which could not fire the medium range AIM-7 Sparrow air-to-air missile. The use was forbidden until Germany became fully sovereign in 1990. Since then the F-4Fs were upgraded to F-4F ICE standard in the 1990s and were finally equipped to use the AIM-120 AMRAAM missile. Due to the smoke generated by the F-4's General Electric J79 engines, the German pilots dubbed the F-4F the \"Air Defence Diesel\". The last of the F-4Fs was retired on 12 June 2008.\n\nFrom 2006 to June 2008 JG 74 transitioned to the Eurofighter Typhoon.\n\n32 years after the crash and death of the German World War II fighter ace Werner Mölders, JG 74 received the honorary name of \"JG 74 Mölders\" on 22 November 1973. However, the German parliament decided in 1998 that it is not proper to name organizations after people who were active in the Legion Condor. The German Military History Institute researched Mölders conduct and concluded that he concurred in his actions with the Nazi government, and never opposed any actions taken by the Nazis. Therefore, the name \"Mölders\" was dropped by JG 74 on 11 June 2005.\n\n", "id": "7718982", "categories": ["Military units and formations established in 1961", "Fighter wings of the German Air Force", "1961 establishments in West Germany"], "title": "Taktisches Luftwaffengeschwader 74"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719001", "text": "Kaibab Indian Reservation\n\nThe Kaibab Indian Reservation the home of the Kaibab Band of Paiute Indians, a federally recognized tribe of Southern Paiutes. The Indian reservation is located in northern part of the U.S. state of Arizona. It covers a land area of in northeastern Mohave County and northwestern Coconino County adjacent to the southern Utah border. The Pipe Spring National Monument lies in the southwestern section of the reservation. The Thunder Mountain Pootseev Nightsky area is located with the reservation.\n\nAs of the 2000 census its population was 196.\n\nThe Kaibab Paiutes have a very long, proud and cherished history that has been passed down through countless generations.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Census Bureau, the reservation has a total area of , almost all land.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 196 people, 65 households, and 49 families residing on the reservation. The population density was . There were 88 housing units at an average density of . The racial makeup of the reservation was 23.47% White, 66.84% Native American, 4.59% from other races, and 5.10% from two or more races, with no persons identifying as Black or African American, Asian, or Pacific Islander. 10.20% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.\n\nThere were 65 households out of which 61.54% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 36.92% were married couples living together, 32.31% had a female householder with no husband present, and 24.62% were non-families. 23.08% of all households were made up of individuals and 1.54% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 3.02 and the average family size was 3.49.\n\nOn the reservation the population was spread out with 44.39% under the age of 18, 9.69% from 18 to 24, 24.49% from 25 to 44, 19.90% from 45 to 64, and 1.53% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 22 years. For every 100 females there were 73.45 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 75.81 males.\n\nThe median income for a household on the reservation was $20,000, and the median income for a family was $21,250. Males had a median income of $22,000 versus $16,607 for females. The per capita income for the reservation was $7,951. About 29.69% of families and 31.65% of the population were below the poverty line.\n\n", "id": "7719001", "categories": ["Native American tribes in Arizona", "Geography of Coconino County, Arizona", "Federally recognized tribes in the United States", "Paiute", "American Indian reservations in Arizona"], "title": "Kaibab Indian Reservation"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719010", "text": "Armitage–Doll multistage model of carcinogenesis\n\nThe Armitage–Doll model is a statistical model of carcinogenesis, proposed in 1954 by Peter Armitage and Richard Doll, which suggested that a sequence of multiple distinct genetic events preceded the onset of cancer. The original paper has recently been reprinted with a set of commentary articles.\n\n", "id": "7719010", "categories": ["Carcinogenesis", "Medical statistics"], "title": "Armitage–Doll multistage model of carcinogenesis"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719016", "text": "In Love with an Angel\n\n\"In Love with an Angel\" was the third and most famous single released by Maria Arredondo. It was released on February 24, 2003, and came in at number one on the Norwegian Top 20 Singles in its second week.\n\nNorwegian CD Single\n", "id": "7719016", "categories": ["Number-one singles in Norway", "2003 singles", "Maria Arredondo songs"], "title": "In Love with an Angel"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719021", "text": "International Trade Union Confederation\n\nThe International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC; ; ; ) is the world's largest trade union federation. It was formed on 1 November 2006, out of the merger of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU) and the World Confederation of Labour (WCL). The Founding Congress of the ITUC was held in Vienna and was preceded by the dissolution congresses of both the ICFTU and the WCL. The ITUC has three main regional organizations – the Asia-Pacific Regional Organization, the American Regional Organization, and the African Regional Organization. The Trade Union Development Cooperation Network (TUDCN) is an initiative of the ITUC whose main objective is to bring the trade union perspective into international development policy debates and improve the coordination and effectiveness of trade union development cooperation activities.\n\nThe ITUC represents 207 million workers through its 331 affiliated organizations within 163 countries and territories. Sharan Burrow is the current General Secretary.\n\nThe ITUC traces its origins back to the First International (also known as the International Workingmen's Association) and in 2014 commemorated the 150th anniversary of the founding of the International Working Men's Association at its own world congress held in Berlin. Also in 2014, the ITUC debuted the Global Rights Index, which ranks nations on 97 metrics pertaining to workers' rights, such as freedom from violent conditions and the right to strike and unionise.\n\nThe founding congress of the ITUC was held from 1 to 3 November 2006 in Vienna, Austria.\n\nThe first day of the congress saw the formal creation of the ITUC followed by an address by Juan Somavia, the Director-General of the International Labour Organization (ILO).\n\nDay two included Pascal Lamy, the Director-General of the World Trade Organization (WTO) responding to panel discussions on the impact of globalisation, including the topics \"Cohesion and chaos - the global institutions\" and \"Global unions - global companies\". Technical difficulties limited Lamy's satellite video link participation.\n\nLeadership and officers were elected on the final day of the congress. Guy Ryder, the former general secretary of the ICFTU, was elected to the same position in the new organisation. Sharan Burrow was elected president. A Governing Council was established, with 70 elected members, and 8 additional seats reserved for youth and women’s representatives.\n\nA Council of Global Unions was also formed on the final day of the congress. It was established jointly with ten global union federations and the Trade Union Advisory Committee to the OECD (TUAC).\nThe second congress of the ITUC was held from 21 to 25 June 2010 in Vancouver, Canada.\n\nOn 25 June 2010, at the conclusion of the congress, Sharan Burrow (then ITUC President) was elected General Secretary, succeeding Guy Ryder (who had been elected as Deputy Director General of the International Labour Organization). In anticipation of her election, Burrow had resigned from her position as President of the Australian Council of Trade Unions effective 1 July 2010.\n\nSpeaking to the Congress after her election, Burrow paid tribute to her predecessor and emphasised the continuing role of organised labour in the world's emergence from the Global Financial Crisis. She also made special mention of the significance of her election as the first female leader of the world's largest trade union (against a background of high workforce participation by women and a Congress 50% of whose delegates were women):\nI am a warrior for woman and we still have work to ensure the inclusion of women in the work place and in our unions. The struggles for women are multiple – too often within their families for independence, then in the workplace for rights and equal opportunity, in their unions for access and representation and then as union leaders. But the investment in and participation of women is not only a moral mandate it is an investment in democracy and a bulwark against fundamentalism and oppression. Organising woman is and must continue to be a priority for the ITUC.\n\nThe Pan-European Regional Council (PERC), a European trade union organisation within the ITUC was formed 19 March 2007. It consists of 87 national trade union centres and a total membership of 87 million. It works closely with the European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC), and Bernadette Ségol is currently the general secretary of both organisations. The ITUC raises capital through charging dues to its member organisations.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719021", "categories": ["International organisations based in Belgium", "International Trade Union Confederation", "Trade unions established in 2006", "2006 establishments in Austria"], "title": "International Trade Union Confederation"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719029", "text": "PCSX-Reloaded\n\nPCSX is a free and open-source video game console emulator which allows software designed to be used with the Sony PlayStation to run on personal computers. Over the years, development changed hands several times with PCSX-Reloaded (PCSXR) now being the main version.\n\nPCSX has a high compatibility rate and is currently available for a number of different operating systems including Microsoft Windows, OS X and Linux. It is released under the GNU General Public License.\n\nThe emulator was first released for the PC on August 31, 2000. Official development ceased on September 17, 2003, and development shifted to the new PlayStation 2 emulator, PCSX2.\n\nPCSX-df was created in 2006 and added new features, a new GTK-based interface, AMD64 support, and corrected some bugs, but was developed mainly with only Linux compatibility in mind. Version 1.10 was released on March 29, 2009.\n\nPCSX-Reloaded is a new project created in mid-2009, which is based on the work of the PCSX-df branch, completely independent, and works on bug fixes while maintaining Windows and OS X compatibility alongside Linux. PCSX-df and PCSX-Reloaded coexisted for a while, with PCSX-df merging changes of PCSX-Reloaded back into \"df\".\n\nPCSX supports network play and external plugins as used by ePSXe. As with many modern emulators PCSX-Reloaded supports savestates and also has Save Rewind feature (currently only OSX and Linux version), Support for ECM files (currently only OS X and Linux version), Support for Libarchive (currently only OSX and Linux version), widescreen hack and makes use of plug-ins to emulate GPU, SPU, and CD-ROM drive functions, a model first established in PSEmu Pro, it uses Peops OpenGL plugin for graphics on default but can also use Pete's OpenGL2, gpuBladeSoft, PCSX2 graphics plugin GSDX, AmiDog GPU plugin, Asmodeans PSXFX shader pack, input plugins such as Lilypad and Pokopom Pad Plugin. It also has multi-track cue support and is the only PS1 emulator with compatibility with anti-jitter options in graphics plugins, such as GTE accuracy in the default Peops OpenGL plugin, or Improved coordinate accuracy in Edgbla's gpuBladeSoft and it also supports PeteOpenGL2Tweak plugin. Additionally, PCSX seeks to simulate the functionality of the PlayStation BIOS and consequently does not require a BIOS file dump to operate, making it easier to emulate legally, however Bios emulation is still incomplete so its better to use dumped BIOS to avoid various bugs and reduced compatibility.\n\nLinux, macOS/OS X, and Microsoft Windows on x86-based computers are the main development focus of PCSX-Reloaded but various PCSX iterations have been ported to other platforms as well, including Dreamcast, GameCube, PlayStation 3, Wii, Xbox, and various ARM-based platforms (PCSX-Rearmed fork) such as BlackBerry Playbook and Nintendo 3DS.\n\nPCSXR was used for an official port and commercial re-release of on Steam on June 29, 2015. It is also used as the emulator on Sony's PlayStation Classic dedicated console.\n\nTom's Guide featured PCSX Reloaded in a feature about the best PlayStation emulators, scoring it at 4 of 5 points. Kator Legaz reviewed the Mac OS version as \"good\".\n\n", "id": "7719029", "categories": ["Software that uses GTK", "Free software programmed in C", "PlayStation emulators"], "title": "PCSX-Reloaded"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719033", "text": "Languages of Afghanistan\n\nAfghanistan is a multilingual country in which two languages – Dari and Pashto – are both official and most widely spoken.\n\nDari is the official name of the Persian language in Afghanistan. It is often referred to as the \"Afghan Persian\". Although still widely known as \"Farsi\" (\"Persian\") to its native speakers, the name was officially changed to Dari in 1964.\n\nBoth Persian and Pashto are Indo-European languages from the Iranian languages sub-family. Other regional languages, such as Uzbek, Turkmen, Balochi, Pashayi and Nuristani, are spoken by minority groups across the country.\n\nMinor languages include Hindi-Urdu, Punjabi, Ashkunu, Kamkata-viri, Vasi-vari, Tregami and Kalasha-ala, Pamiri (Shughni, Munji, Ishkashimi and Wakhi), Brahui, Arabic, Qizilbash, Aimaq, and Pashai and Kyrgyz. Linguist Harald Haarmann believes that Afghanistan is home to more than 40 minor languages, with around 200 different dialects.\n\nThe Dari language functions as the nation's lingua franca and is the native tongue of various Afghan ethnic groups including the Tajiks, Hazaras, and Aimaks. Pashto is the native tongue of the Pashtuns, the dominant ethnic group in Afghanistan. Due to Afghanistan's multi-ethnic character, multilingualism is a common phenomenon.\nThe exact figures about the size and composition of the various ethnolinguistic groups are unavailable since no systematic census has been held in Afghanistan in decades. The table below displays the major languages spoken in Afghanistan:\n\nA sizeable population in Afghanistan, especially in Kabul, can also speak and understand Hindi-Urdu due to the popularity and influence of Bollywood films and songs in the region.\n\nThe official languages of the country are Dari and Pashto, as established by the 1964 Constitution of Afghanistan. Dari is the most widely spoken language of Afghanistan's official languages and acts as a lingua franca for the country. In 1980, other regional languages were granted official status in the regions where they are the language of the majority. This policy was codified in the 2004 Afghan Constitution, which established Uzbek, Turkmen, Balochi, Pashayi, Nuristani and Pamiri as a third official language in areas where they are spoken by a majority of the population.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719033", "categories": [], "title": "Languages of Afghanistan"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719047", "text": "Hollander beater\n\nA Hollander beater is a machine developed by the Dutch in 1680 to produce paper pulp from cellulose containing plant fibers. It replaced stamp mills for preparing pulp because the Hollander could produce in one day the same quantity of pulp it would take a stamp mill eight days to prepare.\n\nHowever, the wooden paddles and beating process of a stamp mill produced longer, more easily hydrated, and more fibrillated cellulose fibers; thus increasing the resulting paper's strength. The Hollander used metal blades and a chopping action to cut the raw material, resulting in shorter cellulose fibers and weaker paper. Further, the metal blades of the Hollander often introduced metal contaminants into the paper as one metal blade struck another. These contaminants often acted as catalysts for oxidation that have been implicated in browning of old paper called foxing.\nIn turn, the Hollander was (partially) replaced by the conical refiner or Jordan refiner, named after its American inventor Joseph Jordan, who patented the device in 1858.\n\nA Hollander beater design consists of a circular or ovoid water raceway with a beater wheel at a single point along the raceway. The beater wheel is a centrifugal compressor or radial impeller cylinder parallel to a grooved plate, similar to the construction of a water wheel or timing pulley. Under power, the blades rotate to beat the fiber into a usable pulp slurry. The beater wheel and plate do not touch, as this would result in cutting. The distance between the two is adjusted to increase or decrease the pressure on the fibers when passing through the beater.\n\nThe objective of using a beater (rather than another process like grinding, as many wood-pulp mills do) is to create longer, hydrated, fibrillated fibers. (Fibrillated fibers are abraded to the extent that many partially broken-off fibers extend from the main fiber, increasing the fiber's surface area, and hence its potential for hydrogen bonding). Grinding of fibers is not desirable. Therefore, the \"blades\" are not what might be thought of as \"sharpened,\" and well-designed beaters make it possible to minimize the shear action of the rotating blades against the bottom of the water raceway.\n\n", "id": "7719047", "categories": ["Dutch inventions", "Pulp and paper industry", "Papermaking", "Pulp and paper mills", "Book arts", "Science and technology in the Dutch Republic", "Industrial processes", "Crafts", "Stamp mills", "Industrial history of the Netherlands"], "title": "Hollander beater"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719059", "text": "Merry Mount (opera)\n\nMerry Mount is an opera in three acts by American composer Howard Hanson; its libretto, by Richard Stokes, is loosely based on Nathaniel Hawthorne's short story \"The May-Pole of Merry Mount\", taken from his \"Twice Told Tales\". Hanson's only opera, it was commissioned by the Metropolitan Opera in New York City.\n\nThe opera received its world premiere in concert at the fortieth annual May Festival of the University Musical Society in Ann Arbor, Michigan (at Hill Auditorium), on May 20, 1933, with the composer conducting the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. The cast included Leonora Corona, Rose Bampton, Frederick Jagel, Chase Baromeo, John Charles Thomas, and George Galvani.\n\nIts world stage premiere by the Metropolitan Opera was given on February 10, 1934. As that performance took place at a Saturday matinée, it was broadcast nationally as part of the company's weekly radio series, with Milton Cross serving as announcer. The premiere featured Lawrence Tibbett in the central role of Wrestling Bradford, the Puritan minister, with Gladys Swarthout as his betrothed, Plentiful Tewke. Swedish soprano Göta Ljungberg and Canadian tenor Edward Johnson took the roles of the Cavalier lovers, Lady Marigold Sandys and Sir Gower Lackland; Tullio Serafin was on the podium. At its premiere, the opera received a total of fifty curtain calls, still a house record. The opera was performed eight more times during the season, but never returned to the Met's repertory, and subsequent performances have been scarce.\n\n\"Merry Mount\" is unusual in that its libretto was written without a composer in mind. Stokes had conducted comprehensive research into Puritan fanaticism, sexual obsession, and demonology; he found that it often reached pathological levels, and usually ended in death as a form of punishment, or redemption, for its victims. While he found his title in a story by Nathaniel Hawthorne, Stokes crafted an original libretto which some compared to \"The Scarlet Letter\". Upon completion of the text, Stokes went in search of a composer, finally finding one in Howard Hanson. Hanson, for his part, was new to the composition of opera, although he had already written a fair amount of choral music. Still, he was already respected as an elder statesman of American classical music, and such was his reputation that the Metropolitan was convinced to commission the work. \"Merry Mount\" would be the fifteenth American opera, and the last but one, presented at the Met during the tenure of Giulio Gatti-Casazza as company director.\n\nThe bluntness of the language used in the libretto surprised many, and was remarked upon even during rehearsals; the \"New York Times\" wrote, on February 11, 1934: [T]he call for the first full-dress rehearsal of Mr. Hanson's first act, to be held today, found several of the singing actors wondering whether modern censorship would approve the candor of some of the \"plain English\" sung or spoken by the Pilgrim Fathers to their disturbing neighbors, the Cavaliers of Quincy, Mass.\n\nVigorous in denunciation, the more clerical characters do not mince their words. One of them uses a series of unmistakable Anglo-Saxon epithets in accosting a woman described as Desire Annable, \"a sinner.\"\n\nTo the angry person's entirely specific charges, the woman not only confesses, but accepts meekly a rejoinder in terms rarely used in a theatre today.\n\nThe end of their interview is the traditional \"Go and sin no more\"\n\nDespite the fiscal frugality imposed on the company by the Great Depression, a lavish production was designed for the opera, and it was lushly cast. Lawrence Tibbett was already well-known to New York audiences for his work in American opera, but the others were more familiar from other fields; Göta Ljungberg was known primarily as a Wagnerian singer, while Edward Johnson had been the company's principal tenor since 1922, and Gladys Swarthout had won fame as a singer of the French repertory.\n\n\"The action takes place in the Massachusetts Bay Colony in the 17th century.\"\n\n\"The main street of a Puritan settlement, with meeting house, stocks, and pillory; the meeting house doubles as a fortress, complete with cannon embrasures and a parapet.\" The opera begins at noon on a Sabbath Day sometime in May; during the prelude the voices of the are heard calling for God's retribution on unbelievers. They are being urged on by their minister, Wrestling Bradford. The service ends, and the congregation leaves the meeting house; the men, armed, are led by Myles Brodrib, and exit to the left, while the women turn to the right. All wait for Bradford to reappear, especially Plentiful Tewke, who has dared to accent her plain grey gown with a bow of flame-colored ribbon. The minister emerges and continues his tirade against unbelievers, inveighing against Satan and his attempts to demolish the new English Israel while the people listen in admiration. Indians and their sorcery are responsible for the loss of the Puritans' crops and provisions, continues Bradford, pointing as he does so to Samoset, who reacts indignantly and stalks out.\n\nHis sermon ended, Bradford next turns his attention to Desire Annable, who is held in the stocks by her wrists and ankles; mother of an illegitimate child, she has been serving her sentence after being found guilty of whoring. Recalling Christ's words to the woman caught in adultery, Bradford tells her to go and sin no more, and releases her. She staggers up; Love Brewster tries to help her, but is angrily pushed away by her grandmother. They exit, shunned by the other women.\n\nIn the pillory stands Jonathan Banks, a Shaker, and it is to him that Bradford now turns his attention. Banks denies the minister's religion, bringing upon himself cries of blasphemy and death threats from the assembled townsfolk. Nevertheless, he is set free, and leaves to the accompaniment of blows from the crowd. The people now continue their singing, praising God and cursing the Devil; Bradford joins with them in a final \"Amen\" before they go out, leaving the minister alone with Plentiful Tewke and her father Praise-God. The latter two whisper together for a moment before Plentiful pushes her father forward, herself withdrawing into the meeting house to observe what will happen; meanwhile, on the roof of the building, Faint-Not Tinker, who has been keeping watch, falls asleep.\n\nTewke begins praising Bradford's sermon, leading the latter to resume his harangue against the evils of the world, with which the older man concurs. But Bradford is haunted by visions of the concubines of Hell, telling how one of them – Astoreth, Queen of the Moon – came to tempt him to carnal sin in a dream the previous night. He then kneels and prays that the temptation be taken from him. Tewke next suggests that the minister is more than ripe for marriage, and suggests his daughter as a suitable candidate, noting her foolish fancy for him. Bradford had previously chosen to remain celibate, but now sees that marriage might perhaps be the will of God. Tewke calls Plentiful out; she admits her love, and he leaves the couple together. Bradford urges marriage at once, while Plentiful seeks the delay of a month, or at least a week; to the last he agrees. At her bidding, he follows custom by giving her half of a coin; she kisses his hand, inflaming his passion. He kisses her brutally; she recoils. This causes him dismay, as he sees no cure for himself in the marriage.\nChildren enter, led by Love Brewster (who brings flowers for Plentiful) and the serious young Peregrine Brodrib; seeing the couple together, they delightedly begin to sing, \"Plentiful Tewke hath catched the preacher!\" before Bradford rebukes them for profaning the Sabbath. He reminds them of the bears that ate the children that mocked Elisha, and urges them to study their religious books; he then exits, followed by Plentiful. Peregrine begins taking the group through catechism, but is interrupted by the entrance of the bearded hunchback Jack Prence, dressed in motley. Prence devises a game with three chalk circles; one symbolizes Heaven, one Paradise, and one Hell. Two children stand in each circle before beginning a game of tag; soon, Peregrine wants to join in, and demands to replace Love's partner. All save him are amused when he is knocked over and finds himself relegated to Hell; he leaves angrily, and threatens to tell his father what has transpired.\n\nBrodrib arrives with three Puritans carrying pikes, interrupting the game. They question Prence about his company of merry gentleman that has recently landed, and that appears ready to celebrate with a maypole dance. They are appalled at even the thought of such behavior, and tie Prence to the whipping-post and begin to whip him. Bradford, in thoughtful mood, enters, and is met by Lady Marigold Sandys, richly attired in riding habit, velvet skirts, and a hat of feathers and jewels. He immediately becomes enraptured by her; she, for her part, belabors him and sets Prence free. Brodrib makes as if to threaten her, but Bradford stops him. Marigold calls on her friends, the handsome and arrogant Sir Gower Lackland among them, who enter with swords drawn just as Faint-Not Tinker awakens and falls from the parapet. Lackland is accompanied by Thomas Morton, Lady Marigold's uncle, and by the parson, Jewel Scrooby. Lackland and Brodrib fight, while the others join in; Bradford stands apart, still transfixed by Marigold. Tinker sounds the alarm on his drum, calling other Puritans to rush in; Cavaliers are ranged against them, carrying the preparations for their maypole. Tinker threatens to fire, but Tewke appears and rebukes the fighters. The parties make introductions; Scrooby, with his evident interest in worldly things, causes particular offense with his appearance. The Cavaliers present a royal warrant from Charles I, which Tewke rejects furiously.\n\nThe groups express their contrasting views of each other; the Puritans view the Cavaliers as idle fools, while the Cavaliers see the Puritans as rebels. Bradford interrupts and rebukes his townsmen, welcoming the newcomers and even promising Pence shelter in his own house. His manner is wild, alarming his friends. But he urges the Cavaliers to repentance, only to be mocked first by Prence and then by Scrooby, before the others join in. Tewke thunders at them to return to England; at last a truce is called. Marigold and Lackland are left gazing at each other lovingly, to the consternation of Bradford. Observed by Plentiful Tewke, he falls to his knees and begs Marigold to allow him to free her from Satan. She gives him hope by telling him to come to her at sundown, but then dashes it by saying that she wishes him to marry her to Lackland. They leave, and the minister, in anguish, orders his followers to break the truce and attack the Cavaliers. The Puritans resolve to do so. Plentiful approaches Bradford and touches his arm; he appears not to recognize her, and throws down his half of the betrothal coin, grinding it underfoot to her tearful dismay. The act ends with both parties expressing resolve to do as they please; the Cavaliers wish to dance and sing, while the Puritans wish to destroy their enemies.\n\n\"A hilltop, with a maypole made from a pine tree at the center; a throne sits before it, and to its left are tables for a banquet.\" The curtain rises after a short prelude. Women are seen preparing the maypole. Trumpets, cannon fire, and the bell of a distant ship signal the beginning of May Day festivities, and the procession, led by Morton and Scrooby, enters. Morton is bedecked as Master of Merry Disports, while Scrooby, vested as English priest, wears a chaplet of vine leaves on his head and a garland over one shoulder; he is Abbot of Misrule. Lackland enters behind them; he is May Lord; he wears white, with a rainbow scarf across his breast and a small dress sword at his side. Prence is his comic train-bearer, and he is attended by the Nine Worthies. Every form of traditional English reveller is present, including nymphs, satyrs, dwarfs, fauns, mummers, shepherds and shepherdesses, Morris dancers, sword dancers, green men, wild men, jugglers, tumblers, minstrels, archers, and mountebanks; there are even an ape, a hobby horse and a dancing bear. An effigy of Flora stands to one side. Lackland proclaims a Commonweal of Joy and renames the hill \"Merry Mount\" before taking his seat with the Worthies. Morton and Scrooby marshal the revellers, who dance around the pole. Samoset enters with members of his tribe during the dance, and offers Lackland gifts; the Indians are made welcome and offered wine and food. As the dancing becomes wilder, they leave in search of the wine.\n\nHorns sound, and the revellers stop dancing to make way for thirty-six girls; they form a coach for Lady Marigold, dressed as Flora, twirling parasols to represent the wheels. Two children serve as the horses for the coach; a third plays coachman, while a fourth, as postillion, sits at the rear. The revellers greet the Lady of May on her wedding-day. Lackland, too, greets her, praising her beauty; she responds in kind. The two advance to the maypole, where Scrooby stands, prayer book in hand, ready to perform the marriage service. As he is about to pronounce them man and wife, Bradford enters and bids him stop; the minister rails against the pagan revelry and the maypole. Armed Puritans enter; the Cavaliers, unarmed, cannot defend themselves. Morton accuses Tewke of breaking the truce; undaunted, the Puritans drive the Cavaliers away, and set about taking down the maypole and removing all signs of revelry. Samoset and his followers appear; the chief claps Brodrib on the shoulder, only to have the wine cup struck from his hand. He is then slashed with a gauntlet, and leaves in anger, to be followed a moment later by Bradford. Tewke, satisfied, watches as the Puritans complete their task to the sounds of wind and thunder somewhere distant.\n\n\"In the forest.\" This follows the first scene at once. Bradford enters, followed by two Puritans who drag Marigold between them. One carries a dark lantern; the minister bids him open it and leave the couple together. He wishes, he says, to wrestle with her soul. The two men leave, and Bradford declares his love to Marigold, who responds with dismay and loathing. He threatens to kill her rather than see her with Lackland; he seizes her, and she strikes him. Lackland staggers in during their struggle. His costume is dishevelled and torn. He fights the minister, but breaks off when Tewke enters with other Puritans, who are armed and carry axes and lanterns. Lackland seizes an axe, but is immediately run through, to Tewke's dismay, by a pike carried by one of the Puritans. He dies in Marigold's arms; she kisses his brow, then stands and calls for vengeance and for her own death. Tewke orders her taken to the village as a prisoner, and his men exit, dragging her away and removing Lackland's body. Left alone with him, Tewke rebukes the minister, and urges his repentance. He leaves, and Bradford prays for divine aid. Exhausted by his anguish and his fight, he falls asleep to the sound of mystic voices, echoing his \"Amen\".\n\n\"Hell.\" While he sleeps, Bradford dreams of the Valley of Tophet; the maypole has become a giant toadstool, and the pagan characters of the revels have become intermingled with figures from Christian demonology. The Cavaliers have become Princes, Warriors, and Courtesans of Hell; Lackland is Lucifer, while the Worthies have morphed into Dagon, Moloch, and Gog-Magog. Morton is Beelzebub, Scrooby the Antichrist. Mahomet and Anubis are present, as is Samoset, in the form of a medicine man. The beast of the Apocalypse, composed of the dancing bear and an eagle and lion, is also in attendance. Marigold is Astoreth; Prence carries Lucifer's train. Witches and a minotaur, his body painted like an Indian's, are in attendance. More monsters appear, including a large toad with a jewel in its forehead. Bradford remains invisible and inaudible to them all. Lucifer enters the plain, to the accompaniment of ancient instruments and heralds. Warriors with sinister banners and bizarre weapons arrive, accompanying nine princes and their acolytes, who swing censers filled with brimstone. Lucifer, pale and with a bloody bandage across his chest, stands on the ridge; his attendants help him down the rocks. Thrones appear from the ground, one each for him and for Astoreth, and for the nine princes. The monsters kneel as Lucifer passes among them; Bradford tries to stand, but cannot. As Lucifer stands before his throne the assembled company bow down; thunder and lightning accompany them as they greet their master. At a signal from him they stand and begin to dance, stopping when he signals again. Bradford is seized, brought forward, and ordered to reject his God. Courtesans dance to tempt him, but it is Marigold, in Babylonian costume with a crescent of jewels on her head, that persuades him to fall. He curses Puritan New England and signs the Devil's book, taking the Devil's mark on his brow. Lucifer leaves, laughing contemptuously, but Astoreth stays with Bradford, who, remembering the Song of Solomon, bids her rise up and come away. He leads her to the door of a tent; they embrace and then enter as the act ends.\n\n\"The forest.\" Bradford lies asleep; Plentiful has covered him with her cloak, and crouches in terror at his side. A lantern lies on the ground; the scene is lit by moonlight. Bradford calls out in his sleep to Astoreth and tries to embrace Plentiful, who shrinks from him in horror. He awakens, and tells her that in his dream he was crowned Emperor of Hell. In fear they hurry away together.\n\n\"The main street of the village.\" Indian war drums may be heard, and as the curtain rises Samoset and his braves are seen finishing a war dance. The church is completely gone; other structures are burning. An Indian drags in Love Brewster; she tries to scream, but is scalped. A shot is heard, and Samoset falls, dead. The Indians flee as the Puritans, some wounded, return. Love's grandmother is distraught to see her granddaughter's body, while Tewke and others cry out in biblical lament over the destruction that they see.\nBradford appears, and the townsfolk turn to him for prayer and aid. But he is horrified at the realization of his curse, and tells them of his dream, and of his apostasy; he will never again pray. The Puritans lament the loss of their leader. Marigold, distraught and fatigued, appears, her festal dress torn. She recoils from the minister in horror. The Puritans heap abuses on her, calling her a witch and demanding her death. She tells them that she is no witch; happy once, her husband is dead, and she will be happy no more, but must soon join him. The people prepare to stone her, but stop when Bradford tears off his clerical bands and skullcap, revealing the mark of the Devil on his brow. He calls on his new master; flames engulf the village. Marigold swoons in fear, and Bradford seizes her, carrying her in his arms into the fire. In horror, the Puritans kneel in prayer, and the opera closes as they intone the Lord's Prayer.\n\n\"Merry Mount\" was successful at its appearance – \"A Stirring Ovation ... Reception of Hanson-Stokes Opera most Enthusiastic of 10 Years at Metropolitan\", read the headline on page 1 of the second section of the \"Times\" – but audiences seemed more pleased with the piece than did the critics. Typical of the latter's attitude was Pitts Sanborn's review for the \"New York World-Telegram\": Dr. Hanson's music is most effective in the choral passages, which are plentiful. Take the chant of the men within the church after the impressive choral prelude. True there is oftener the suggestion of Moussorgsky than of Massachusetts, but who would be so ungracious as to object to that? Nor has Dr. Hanson failed to assemble lively measures for the Maypole dance or to strike the witching note called for by the wild doings at the \"Hellish Rendezous\". Unfortunately his writing for the solo voices is not free from awkwardness and at times the weight and density of the orchestral fabric constitutes a barrier between the word that is sung and the ears of the audience.\nLess enthusiastic was Olin Downes, writing for the February 11 edition of the \"Times\":[T]he story is too cluttered up with incidental diversions. ... [T]he principal defect of this book lies ... in the inhumanity of Bradford. He is nothing but a maddened and perverted sadist. Our Puritan fore-fathers, despite all the present-day condemnation of \"suppressions\" and the like, were much more than that. They had very noble sides; they had superb heroism. There should be more conflicting impulse and action, and relieving traits, in this character, for us to believe in him.\n\n... The music is at times conventionally and noisily effective. Otherwise, it displays neither originality nor any special aptitude for the theatre. Its strongest point is the choral writing. That is somewhat inappropriate, in the sense of dramatic verity, because we know that no Puritans sang these elaborate choruses, or anything much like them.\nCritics were, however, nearly universal in their applause for the cast, especially for Tibbett. Sanborn, in his review, said:\"Merry Mount\" is almost a one-part opera and that part is Wrestling Bradford. In it Mr. Tibbett exhibits once more his intelligence and skill as a singing actor, as well as splendid courage and endurance. The wooden angularity of his movements and gestures, however, was a mistaken exaggeration. That the terrific tessitura of his part interferes with his vocal security and freedom was, of course, not his fault.\nDownes, for his part, wrote that ... The cast and orchestra were admirable. Mr. Tibbett had to shout his way, against prevailingly heavy orchestration, all through the opera, so that it was no wonder his tone showed sign of strain. He was nevertheless as effective as he possibly could be in an ineffective part. Mme. Ljungberg also shouted, but with evident care for the purpose and respect for the composer's intention and melodic line ... \nMr. Johnson sang excellently with a fine quality. ... The chorus was superb, and Mr. Serafin, very plainly, had prepared the opera with the greatest care. (Times, February 11, 1934.)\nDownes also found occasion to comment upon the makeup of the audience:\nAnother feature of the occasion was the uncommon character of the audience. On the social and musical side it was exceptionally representative, but it had also an element not often present in such force in this lyric theatre. For this was an audience more thoughtful and conservative than is customary in many places of public amusement.\n\nThose who do not always patronize opera as an amusement were there. They listened and they looked with a special seriousness and interest. It is reasonable to believe that this substantial gathering in a theatre crowded to capacity was attracted by the nature of Mr. Stoke's subject ...\n\nTo other facts of the occasion should be added these: That the performance was repeatedly punctuated by applause; that after the first curtain there was a particular burst of approval for Lawrence Tibbett; that after the second curtain there were recalls after recalls for Dr. Hanson and for Mr. Stokes, who came back and forth with complete éclat, and showed clearly their approval of the audience! Enthusiasm grew. There was more applause after the second act-the Maypole scene-than after the first, and more after the third than after the second.\n\nLater critics have not been kinder to \"Merry Mount\"; Paul Jackson, in his book \"Saturday Afternoons at the Old Met\", writes that[Hanson's] incessant drumbeat ostinati and repetitive fanfares ultimately relegate a large portion of the score to the realm of background music. Hanson establishes no distinctive sound signature either in the predictably Polovetzian choral and ballet sections or in his monochromatic vocal writing for the principals ... Hanson is overfond of length choral vocalizations on \"Ah\"; too often the music calls to mind the trappings of a Hollywood soundtrack. After Bradford's penitential immolation, a final choral apotheosis, accompanied by the inevitable drums, brings the opera to a close. One must echo Johnson's lament that all their labors and money had \"gone for nothing.\"\n\nEven some members of the cast were disappointed in \"Merry Mount\". Johnson, after two weeks' rehearsal, confessed that he was \"pretty well fed up with it ... \"Merry Mount\" is a very pretentious, ineffective work,\" later calling his role \"simply lousy.\"\n\nThe opera was given a further eight times during the season, including three tour performances; the last of these took place in Rochester, New York, where Hanson was director of the Eastman School of Music.\n\nDespite its initial appearance of success, \"Merry Mount\" was dropped from the repertory after the 1933–34 season, and has not enjoyed many revivals since. Hanson compiled a suite for orchestra from excerpts of the piece which consists of the prelude, the children's dance from Act I, the love duet from Act II, and the prelude and ballet from Act II. This has enjoyed more popularity than the opera, and has received multiple recordings.\n\nIn April 2014, \"Merry Mount\" was revived in two performances at the Eastman Theater in Rochester by the Rochester Philharmonic Orchestra. On May 7, 2014, the same orchestra played \"Merry Mount\" at Carnegie Hall in New York, its first New York performance in 80 years.\n\nA recording of the 1934 world premiere broadcast of \"Merry Mount\" by the Metropolitan Opera was issued on CD by Naxos Records in 1998. Small snippets of music, missing from the original master discs, are missing from the recording; the release does, however, feature commentary by the announcer Milton Cross as originally heard on-air.\n\nNot long after the opera's premiere, the composer led a group of student performers in a recording, now long out of print, of excerpts from the piece. Numerous recordings of the orchestral suite exist.\n\nTibbett recorded Bradford's first-act aria \"Oh, 'tis an earth defiled\" on 19 January 1934, shortly before his performance of the role at the stage premiere. This was for many years the only excerpt of the opera that was commercially available.\n\nIn May 2007, Naxos Records released a complete CD recording of \"Merry Mount\", performed by the Seattle Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Gerard Schwarz. This recording was made at the time of an October 1996 concert production of the opera in Seattle, celebrating the 100th anniversary of Hanson's birth.\n\n", "id": "7719059", "categories": ["English-language operas", "Operas by Howard Hanson", "Operas", "Operas set in the United States", "Opera world premieres at the Metropolitan Opera", "1934 operas", "Orchestral suites"], "title": "Merry Mount (opera)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719063", "text": "George Hamilton (footballer)\n\nGeorge Hamilton (7 December 1917 – May 2001) was a Scottish international footballer, who spent most of his 21-year career with Aberdeen. He also played for Queen of the South, Heart of Midlothian and Hamilton Academical.\n\nBorn in Irvine, Hamilton started out with local junior side Irvine Meadow before moving to Dumfries to join Queen of the South. Hamilton was comfortable with the ball on either foot and had an obvious love of playing the game. After a single season with Queens (scoring nine goals in 31 league games) Aberdeen managed by Dave Halliday (another ex-Queen of the South player) purchased him for £3000 in April 1938.\n\nHamilton would prove as shrewd a signing as Halliday would ever make as he would emerge as an inspirational player of real quality.\n\nLike many of his contemporaries, Hamilton's career was significantly disrupted by the Second World War and, when League football in Scotland went into abeyance in 1939, he returned to his native Ayrshire. Eventually, temporary Regional Leagues were established, and, due to war-time travel restrictions, players would guest for local sides. This resulted in Hamilton turning out for first Ayr United, then Rangers between 1940 and 1945.\n\nHamilton returned to Aberdeen at the end of global hostilities and enjoyed his most successful period, lifting the transitional 1945–46 League Cup then scoring the winner in the 1947 Scottish Cup Final against Hibernian. Despite this, when Heart of Midlothian offered £8000 plus the younger Archie Kelly for his services in December 1947, the \"Reds\" considered it good value for a 30-year-old, and accepted.\n\nAfter only 17 appearances (scoring six goals in thirteen league games) for Hearts, an unsettled Hamilton returned to Aberdeen.\n\nIn March 1950 Hamilton played in a titanic Scottish Cup quarter final tussle against former club Queen of the South, now also a top division side. Playing at Palmerston Park and with Hamilton pulling the strings, the Dons were three goals up after 15 minutes playing some fine football. A Doug McAvoy goal reduced the deficit to two goals at half time. Queens unleashed a second half onslaught. Amid some frantic play Queens pulled a goal back with nine minutes remaining from Doug McBain. Billy Houliston playing out of position on the right wing then crossed for McAvoy's second goal to level the scores at 3–3. Frank Watson in the Aberdeen goal pulled off an outstanding last minute save to force a replay back in Aberdeen. In the 28th minute Aberdeen again went a goal up before Houliston (playing at his preferred centre forward after a tactical reshuffle during the game) lashed home the equaliser from a McAvoy pass. A minute later Queens were ahead for the first time in the tie – McAvoy again the provider for Charlie Johnston this time to trouble the score keeper. With no more goals Queens went through to the semi final for the first time in their history.\n\nDespite Aberdeen's erratic league results, Hamilton helped the side to two further (losing) Scottish Cup Final appearances, in 1953 and 1954.\n\nAge eventually caught up with Hamilton and he was transferred to Hamilton Academical in 1955, having largely watched from the sidelines as a young \"Dons\" side won the 1954–55 League title with the long serving Halliday still at the helm.\n\nHamilton retired a matter of months after joining Academicals, not long after his 38th birthday. In his eleven league appearances for the club he scored two goals.\n\nHamilton's consistent good form in 1945–46 earned him a Scotland national team debut against Northern Ireland.\n\nHamilton twice earned an international recall, initially in 1951, when he scored a hat-trick against Belgium, then remarkably in 1954 when aged 36. He played 2 games against Norway scoring the only goal of the game played in Scotland.\n\nThis latter return coincided with the 1954 FIFA World Cup and Hamilton was selected in the 22-man squad for Switzerland. Scotland decided to take only 13 players to the finals with Hamilton one of the players to stay at home on reserve with the likes of Bobby Combe and Jimmy Binning. However Hibs' Bobby Johnstone withdrew through injury with Hamilton called in to replace him in the 13 to travel. However Hamilton did not play in either of Scotland's two games.\n\nHamilton was the first former Queen of the South player to travel to the World Cup Finals. Sam Malcolmson to Spain in 1982 and Bernie Slaven at Italia 90 are the others to have done so.\n\nAfter hanging up his boots Hamilton joined the Aberdeen coaching team.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719063", "categories": ["Aberdeen F.C. players", "Hamilton Academical F.C. players", "Association football inside forwards", "1954 FIFA World Cup players", "Sportspeople from Irvine, North Ayrshire", "Rangers F.C. wartime guest players", "Aberdeen F.C. non-playing staff", "Scotland international footballers", "1917 births", "2001 deaths", "Scottish footballers", "Heart of Midlothian F.C. players", "Scottish Football League representative players", "Ayr United F.C. wartime guest players", "Queen of the South F.C. players", "Scottish Football League players", "Irvine Meadow XI F.C. players"], "title": "George Hamilton (footballer)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719101", "text": "Attorney General of Delaware\n\nThe Attorney General of Delaware is a constitutional officer of the U.S. state of Delaware, and is the chief law officer and the head of the State Department of Justice. On January 1, 2019, Kathy Jennings was sworn in as the 46th Attorney General of Delaware.\n\nThe Attorney General elected to a four-year term in the \"off-year\" state election, two years before/after the election of the Governor. Along with the State Treasurer, State Auditor, and State Insurance Commissioner, the office is intended to serve as a restraint to the Governor's exclusive executive authority. The office existed in various forms prior to the ratification of the Delaware Constitution of 1776, which continued the existing colonial tradition of granting the Governor of Delaware the power to appoint the Attorney General for a five-year tenure. With the ratification of the Delaware Constitution of 1897, the post was converted to its present four-year elected form, also establishing the Attorney General as third in line of succession to the office of Governor, after the Lieutenant Governor and Secretary of State.\n\nGunning Bedford, Jr. was the first holder of the office after American independence. The office was held from 2007-2015 by Joseph R. \"Beau\" Biden III, who was elected in 2006 and took office on January 2, 2007. He was a Democrat and the eldest son of Vice President and former senior U.S. Senator from Delaware, Joseph R. Biden, Jr.. The current incumbent is Kathy Jennings.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719101", "categories": [], "title": "Attorney General of Delaware"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719115", "text": "Stefano Colantuono\n\nStefano Colantuono (born 23 October 1962 in Rome) is an Italian football professional football manager and former player, who played as a defender. He most recently served as the head coach of Serie B club Salernitana.\n\nColantuono, a centre back, started his playing career for Serie D side Velletri in 1981. In 1983, he moved to Ternana of Serie C1, then Arezzo of Serie B, and finally made his Serie A debut for Pisa. He played Serie A until 1990 for several teams. In 1991, he accepted to play in the national futsal league for BNL Roma, winning a \"scudetto\". Following this experience, Colantuono played mostly at lower levels, especially Serie C2 and Serie D, and even Eccellenza for Sambenedettese in 1994–95. After a long list of experiences in different Italian regions, Colantuono returned to play for Sambenedettese in November 2000, leading his team to an immediate promotion to Serie C2.\n\nThe 2001–02 Serie C2 season for Sambenedettese was going to be very hard, with two coaches fired throughout the season. After the sack of third coach Enrico Nicolini, Colantuono, a player for the team, was appointed to manage Sambenedettese together with Gabriele Matricciani for the last nine matches. Surprisingly, Colantuono managed to win all these nine matches, leading his team to a fifth place, qualifying and successively even winning the promotion playoffs.\n\nColantuono's Serie C1 coaching debut, in 2002–03, ended in another fifth place, securing a place in the promotion playoff, then lost to Pescara. In the meanwhile, Luciano Gaucci, owner of Sambenedettese, Serie B team Catania and Serie A team Perugia at the time, appointed Colantuono at the helm of the Sicilian side. Colantuono, again supported by Matricciani because of his lack of a regular coaching license, led Catania to a fairly good season in ninth place. In 2004–05, after Catania was sold by the Gaucci family, Colantuono, finally authorized to act as first team coach, signed for Perugia, just relegated to Serie B. He led the team to a spot in the promotion playoff, then lost to Torino. After the cancellation of Perugia, in 2005–06 Colantuono accepted the offer of Atalanta, leading the \"nerazzurri\" to a clear Serie B win. In the season 2006–07 he led Atalanta to an impressive seventh place in the Serie A table.\n\nOn 31 May 2007, he was announced as new Palermo head coach to replace Francesco Guidolin. However, after a number of unimpressive performances ended by a crushing 5–0 loss to Juventus persuaded club chairman Maurizio Zamparini to sack him on 26 November 2007. He was once again recalled on 24 March 2008 to replace Guidolin as head coach of Palermo. However, Colantuono was sacked again after just one game of the 2008–09 season, and was replaced by Davide Ballardini on 4 September.\n\nOn 15 June 2009 he was appointed as new head coach of Torino, replacing Giancarlo Camolese. He guided the \"granata\" through their 2009–10 Serie B campaign, with the aim to promptly lead the historical Turin club back into the top flight. He was however fired on 29 November due to poor results and replaced by Mario Beretta. On 10 January 2010 he was then reappointed as head coach to replace Beretta himself. He announced his resignation after losing the promotion playoff finals to Brescia, contemporaneously confirming he was in talks for the vacant coaching post at his previous club Atalanta. Colantuono's comeback at Atalanta was officially announced the next day. Under his tenure, Atalanta promptly won the \"Cadetti\" and promotion back to Serie A in his first season in charge during the 2010–11 Serie B season.\n\nColantuono led Atalanta's successful return to the top flight during the 2011–12 Serie A season, resulting in a comfortable 12th-place finish. An impressive outcome considering the club began the season with a six-point deduction for its involvement in the 2011–12 Italian football scandal. An additional deduction of 2 points followed before the 2012–13 Serie A season, however, Colantuono still managed to guide Atalanta to safety with a 15th-place finish. Keeping with their manager for the 2013–14 Serie A campaign, Coulantuono secured 11th place and some impressive performance including victories of local rivals Internazionale and A.C. Milan. Before the start of the 2014–15 Serie A season, Coulantuono committed his future to Atalanta, however, the season did not go well and after a poor run of form he was dismissed on 4 June 2015 and replaced by Edy Reja, leaving Atalanta only 3 points above the relegation zone. He took up the head coach position soon after at Udinese.\n\nHe then guided Bari from November 2016 till June 2017, only managing a twelfth place by the end of the season with one of the clubs that was more widely expected to fight for a promotion spot. He was subsequently appointed head coach of Salernitana on December 2017, taking over from Alberto Bollini, guiding the club to a mid-table finish.\n\nAfter being confirmed in charge of Salernitana for the 2018–19 season, Colantuono resigned on 18 December 2018 after three consecutive defeats which left the promotion hopefuls in a mid-table position in the league table.\n", "id": "7719115", "categories": ["A.C. Pisa 1909 players", "Serie A managers", "A.C. Perugia Calcio managers", "Calcio Catania managers", "Udinese Calcio managers", "Italian footballers", "Serie B players", "Ternana Calcio players", "1962 births", "Living people", "Serie A players", "Fermana F.C. players", "Torino F.C. managers", "Ascoli Calcio 1898 F.C. players", "Atalanta B.C. managers", "Italian football managers", "U.S. Città di Palermo managers", "U.S. Avellino 1912 players", "Como 1907 players", "F.S. Sestrese Calcio 1919 players", "Association football defenders", "Sportspeople from Rome", "U.S. Arezzo players", "S.S. Sambenedettese Calcio players", "Frosinone Calcio players"], "title": "Stefano Colantuono"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719139", "text": "Memleben\n\nMemleben is a village and part of the Kaiserpfalz municipality of the Burgenlandkreis district, in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. It is known for former Memleben Abbey, the site of a medieval \"Kaiserpfalz\".\n\nIt is located southwest of Nebra on the Unstrut River. The former municipality was merged with the neighbouring villages of Bucha and Wohlmirstedt into Kaiserpfalz on 1 July 2009.\n\nNowadays the village has about 800 inhabitants. It also has an animal training center open to the public.\n\nA settlement called \"Mimelebo\" was already documented in a 780 register of the Hersfeld Abbey estates, issued by Archbishop Lullus of Mainz. In the 10th century the \"Pfalz\" or \"villa regia\" of Memleben, a kind of seasonal king's court, was one of the favourite places of the German king Henry the Fowler and his son Emperor Otto I. Henry the Fowler died here, probably by a stroke, on 2 July 936; his son Emperor Otto I also used Memleben as a temporary residence and died here on 7 May 973. According to the \"Res gestae saxonicae\" by the contemporary chronicler Widukind of Corvey, his intestines were buried in a Memleben church.\n\nOn behalf of Emperor Otto II, son of Otto I, the Benedictine Memleben monastery was built there from about 979 to honour the memory of his father. The Imperial abbey became one of the most important monasteries in the German kingdom for a short time, until in 1015 Emperor Henry II ceded it back to the monks of Hersfeld Abbey.\n\nThe monastery buildings were devastated during the German Peasants' War in 1525. After the Protestant Reformation the abbey was finally dissolved in 1548, its estates were seized by the Electorate of Saxony and ceded to the newly established Pforta state school. Remains of the church and the monastery are still to be seen.\n\n", "id": "7719139", "categories": ["Burgenlandkreis", "Villages in Saxony-Anhalt"], "title": "Memleben"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719140", "text": "Nevile Henderson\n\nSir Nevile Meyrick Henderson (10 June 1882 – 30 December 1942) was a British diplomat and Ambassador of the United Kingdom to Nazi Germany from 1937 to 1939.\n\nHe was born at Sedgwick Park near Horsham, Sussex, the third child of Robert and Emma Henderson. His uncle was Reginald Hargreaves, who married Alice Liddell, the original of Alice in Wonderland. Henderson was very attached to the countryside of Sussex, especially his hometown of Sedgwick, writing in 1940: \"Each time that I returned to England the white cliffs of Dover meant Sedgwick for me, and when my mother died in 1931 and my home was sold by my elder brother's wife, something went out of my life which nothing can replace\". Henderson was extremely close to his mother Emma, a strong-willed woman who had successfully managed the estate at Sedgwick after her husband's death in 1895 and who developed the gardens of Sedgwick so well that they were photographed by the \"Country Life\" magazine in 1901. Henderson called his mother \"the presiding genius of Sedgwick\" who was a \"wonderful and masterful woman if ever there was one\". \n\nHe was educated at Eton and joined the Diplomatic Service in 1905. Henderson saw himself as a member of \"the Establishment\", and had the typical views of an upper-class Victorian Englishman, convinced of the superiority of all things British and seeing the British Empire as the greatest force for the good. Henderson had a great love of sports, guns, and hunting and those who knew him noted he was always most happy when he was out on the hunt. Henderson was also known for his love of clothing, always wearing the most expensive Savile Row suits and a red carnation, being considered to be one of the most best dressed men in the Foreign Office. Henderson's obsession with his wardrobe, social etiquette, and hunting was part of a carefully cultivated image that he sought for himself as a polished \"English gentleman\". Henderson never married, but his biographer, Peter Neville, wrote \"women played an important role in his life\". Henderson's lifelong bachelorhood did not cause questions about his sexuality with Baron Ernst von Weizsäcker, the State Secretary of the \"Auswärtiges Amt\", writing in his diary that Henderson was a \"ladies's man\". \n\nIn the early 1920s, Henderson was stationed at the embassy in Turkey, where he played a major role in the often difficult relations between Britain and the new Turkish republic. Henderson had wanted a posting in France rather than Turkey, and constantly complained to his superiors about being sent to the latter place. It during his time in Turkey when Henderson played a major role in the negotiations about the Mosul dispute as Turkish president Mustafa Kemal had laid claim to the Mosul region of Iraq. Henderson was prepared to yield about Turkish demands for Constantinople, arguing that after the Chanak crisis of 1922, when it was dramatically revealed that public opinion in both Britain and the Dominions were unwilling go to war over the issue that Britain had a very weak hand, but was more forceful in upholding the British claim to the Mosul region. \n\nHe served as an envoy to France in 1928/29 and as Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia between 1929 and 1935, where he was in close confidence with King Alexander and Prince Paul. Henderson had been lobbying for a major post in the embassy in Paris and did not want to the minister in Belgrade, notably continuing to pay the rent for his apartment in Paris for some time after moving to Belgrade as he was had expecting to move back to Paris soon. The British legation in Belgrade was considered to be unglamorous post in contrast to the \"grand embassies\" in Paris, Berlin, Rome, Moscow, Vienna, Madrid and Washington. During his time in Belgrade, Henderson became a very close friend of King Alexander, as Henderson had a strong tendency towards hero-worship and in King Alexander he found a hero worthy of his admiration. Henderson's dispatches from Belgrade took on a notably pro-Yugoslav tone as for Henderson King Alexander was a hero who could do no wrong. In January 1929, King Alexander, who until then had been a constitutional monarch, had staged a \"self-coup\", abolishing democracy and making himself the dictator of Yugoslavia. Henderson's friendship with King Alexander, who shared his love of hunting and guns, notably increased British influence in Yugoslavia, which first brought him attention in the Foreign Office. \n\nAs during his time in Berlin, Henderson took exception to any negative remark in the British press about Yugoslavia, writing to the Foreign Office if anything could be done to silence criticism of Yugoslavia. After attending King Alexander's funeral, Henderson wrote: \"I felt more emotion at King Alexander's funeral than I felt at any other except my mother's\". Henderson wrote to a friend in Britain in 1935: \"My sixth winter in the Belgrade trenches is the worse of all. The zest has gone out of it with King Alexander gone. It interested me enormously to play Stockmar to his Albert and that made all the difference\". In January 1935, the Permanent Undersecretary at the Foreign Office, Sir Robert \"Van\" Vansittart sharply rebuked Henderson for a letter he had written to Prince Paul, the Regent of Yugoslavia, for the boy king Peter II, in which Henderson strongly supported Yugoslavia's complaints against Italy. Vansittart complained particularly about Henderson's claim that the Italian government was supporting Croat and Macedonian separatist terrorists and that Italy had been involved in the assassination of King Alexander in Marseilles in October 1934, writing \"Are we convinced of this and do we wish Prince Paul to think that we are convinced of it\".\n\nIn 1935 he became Ambassador to Argentina before on 28 May 1937 the Foreign Secretary, Anthony Eden, appointed him Ambassador in Berlin. A subsequent Prime Minister, Harold Macmillan, wrote: Eden wanted an ambassador in Berlin who could get along well with dictators, and Vansittart gave him a list of three diplomats who had shown a strong partiality towards autocratic leaders, namely Henderson, Sir Percy Loraine and Sir Miles Lampson. In his 1956 memoirs \"The Mist Procession\", Vansittart wrote about the appointment of Henderson: \"Nevile Henderson...made such a hit with the dictator [King Alexander] by his skill at shooting that he was ultimately picked for Berlin. All know the consequences\". Henderson's promotion from being the ambassador in Buenos Aires to being the ambassador in Berlin-regarded as one of the \"grand embassies\" in the Foreign Office-was a major boost to his ego. Henderson wrote at the time that he believed he had been \"specially selected by Providence for the definite mission of I trusted, helping to preserve the peace of the world\". As he crossed the Atlantic on a ship to take him back to Britain, Henderson who was fluent in German, read \"Mein Kampf\" in the original German version to acquaint himself with the thinking of Adolf Hitler.. Henderson wrote in his 1940 \"The Failure of a Mission\" that he was determined \"to see the good side of the Nazi regime as well as the bad, and to explain as objectively as I could its aspirations and viewpoint to His Majesty's Government\". \n\nUpon arriving in London, Henderson met the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Neville Chamberlain, who was due to replace Stanley Baldwin as prime minister the next month, for a briefing about the Berlin mission. Some controversy has ensued over just what precisely Chamberlain told Henderson. In his book \"Failure of a Mission\", Henderson wrote that Chamberlain \"outlined to me his views on the general policy towards Germany and I think I may honestly say to the last and bitter end I followed the general line which he set me, all the easily and faithfully since it corresponded so closely with my own private conception of the service I could best render in Germany to my own country\". Henderson was to claim that Chamberlain had authorised him to commit \"calculated indiscretions\" in the pursuit of peace, through the German-born American historian Abraham Ascher wrote no evidence has emerged to support this claim. T.Philip Conwell-Evans, a pro-Nazi British historian who taught German history at Königsburg University, was later to claim that Henderson had told him that Chamberlain had made him his personal envoy to Germany and he was to by-pass Vansittart by taking orders directly from the Prime Minister's office. Regardless of what Chamberlain said to Henderson in April 1937, Henderson always seemed to have regarded himself as directly answerable to 10 Downing Street and showed a marked tendency to ignore Vansittart. \n\nA believer in appeasement policies, Henderson thought Adolf Hitler could be controlled and pushed toward peace and cooperation with the Western powers. Like almost all of the British elite in the interwar era, Henderson believed that the Treaty of Versailles was far too harsh on Germany, and if only the terms of Versailles were revised in Germany's favor, then another world war could be prevented. Neville wrote the charge that Henderson was pro-Nazi is incorrect as Henderson was rather anti-Versailles as he had been advocating revising the terms of the Treaty of Versailles in favor of Germany long before Hitler ever came to power. By contrast, Ascher credited Henderson's beliefs about avoiding war due to his desire to uphold white supremacy and to avoid another \"fratricidal\" war between white peoples at a time when Asian, black and brown peoples were starting to demand equality, citing Henderson's dispatch to Eden on 26 January 1938 that warned that another Anglo-German war: \"would be...absolutely disastrous-I cannot imagine and would be unwilling to survive the defeat of the British Empire. At the same time, I would view with dismay another defeat of Germany, which would merely serve the purposes of inferior races\". \n\nShortly after arriving in Berlin, Henderson started to clash with Vansittart. Vansittart complained that Henderson was exceeding his brief and becoming too close to the Nazi leaders, especially Hermann Göring who became Henderson's best friend. Henderson first met Göring on 24 May 1937 and admitted to having a \"real personal liking\" for him. The same tendency towards hero-worship that Henderson had displayed towards King Alexander when he was in Belgrade reasserted itself in Berlin towards Göring as Henderson had a fascination with militaristic authority figures. Göring shared Henderson's love of hunting and guns, and the two frequently went off together on hunting trips in the forests of Germany. Eden sharply criticised Henderson for not challenging Göring's statement that the German people should not look upon Britain as \"an enemy in their path\" and closer Anglo-German ties were needed, as it implied that British foreign policy was anti-German. In one of his \"calculated indiscretions\", Henderson broke with the unwritten rule in the Foreign Office that ambassadors should never criticise their predecessors, and told Göring that Sir Eric Phipps had been too insensitive towards German concerns. \n\nIn June 1937, the Prime Minister of Canada, William Lyon Mackenzie King, visited Berlin to meet Hitler and during the same visit, Mackenzie King told Henderson that Hitler had said \"they all liked him and felt he had a good understanding of German problems\", a remark that appealed much to Henderson's vanity. Hitler called Henderson \"the man with the carnation\" (a reference to the red carnation Henderson always wore) and despised him, finding Henderson to be too superior in his manners for his liking. In contrast to his close friendship with Göring, Henderson's relationship with the Foreign Minister, Joachim von Ribbentrop, was extremely antagonistic as Henderson detested Ribbentrop, writing to King George IV that Ribbentrop was \"eaten up with conceit\". Henderson argued that the Nazi regime was divided into factions, whom he called the \"moderates\" and the \"extremists\". Henderson regarded Göring as the leader of the \"moderates\", which also included the Wehrmacht officer corps, the \"Reichsbank\" officials, the professional diplomats of the \"Auswärtiges Amt\" and the officials of the Economics ministry while the \"extremists\" were Joachim von Ribbentrop, Josef Goebbels, and Heinrich Himmler. Henderson argued that Britain should work to revise the international system established by the Treaty of Versailles in favor of Germany-arguing that this would strengthen the \"moderates\" in Germany and weaken the \"extremists\"-as the best way of preventing another world war. Henderson regarded the aims of the \"moderates\" such as the return of the Free City of Danzig, the Polish Corridor, Upper Silesia and the lost colonies in Africa together with an \"Anschluss\" with Austria and having the Sudetenland join Germany were all reasonable and just. \n\nWhen Henderson accepted Göring's invitation to attend the 1937 Nazi Party Rally in Nuremberg without consulting the Foreign Office, Vansittart was furious, writing that it was \"extraordinary\" that Henderson should \"not only take an important decision like this off his own bat without giving us a chance at consultation...but also announce it to a foreign colleague as a decision\". Vansittart wrote to Henderson that he should not attend the Party Rally in Nuremberg, saying \"you would be suspected of giving countenance or indeed eulogy (as alleged by one Member of Parliament) to the Nazi system\" and the Foreign Office would be accused of having \"fascist leanings\". Henderson wrote back that \"one has to be empirical to a certain degree and since Nazism could not be wished away, what was the point of being discourteous to Hitler and unnecessarily irritating to him?\" Much to Vansittart's annoyance, Henderson attended the Nazi Party Rally in Nuremberg in September 1937, which was widely taken at the time as showing British approval of National Socialist ideology. At the same time, Henderson described the \"Strength Through Joy\" movement and the labour camps for young people as showing the \"beneficial\" aspects of Hitler's rule, who ensured that the young Germans developed properly patriotic attitudes towards the Fatherland. \n\nHenderson called the Party Rally of 1937, which took place between 10-11 September, a most impressive event attended by some 140, 000 Germans, who were full enthusiasm for the regime. Henderson wrote that his hosts in Nuremberg went out of their way to be friendly towards him, giving him a luxurious apartment to stay in and inviting him to sumptuous meals with the best German food and wine being served. From Nuremberg, Henderson reported to London that: \"We are witnessing in Germany the rebirth, the reorganisation and unification of the German nation. One may criticise and disapprove, one may thoroughly dislike the threatened consummation and be apprehensive of its potentialities. But let us make no mistake. A machine is being built up in Germany, which in the course of this generation, if it succeeds unchecked, as there is no reason to believe that it will not, will be extraordinarily formidable. All this was achieved in less than five years. Germany is now so strong it can no longer be attacked with impunity, and soon, the country will be prepared for aggressive action\". However, Henderson saw no reason for alarm, writing that \"we are perhaps entering the quieter phrase of Nazism, of which the first indication has been the greater tranquility of the 1937 meeting [at Nuremberg].\" Henderson spoke with Hitler at Nuremberg, and described him as seeking \"reasonableness\" in foreign affairs with a special interest in reaching an \"Anglo-German understanding\". Because Hitler in his speech at Nuremberg had demanded that Britain and France return the former German colonies in Africa, Henderson came away with the impression that for Hitler the restoration of the German colonial empire in Africa was \"der Führer\"'s principle foreign policy interest. The British historian Andrew Crozier wrote the thesis developed by the German historian Klaus Hildebrand of \"colonial blackmail\", namely that for Hitler, the demand for lost colonies in Africa were meant to \"blackmail\" Britain into giving Germany a \"free hand in the East\" (i.e Eastern Europe), is well supported by the available evidence. \n\nOn 16 March 1938 Henderson wrote to the Foreign Secretary, Lord Halifax, his view that \"British interests and the standard of morality can only be combined if we insist upon the fullest possible equality for the Sudeten minority of Czechoslovakia\". Unlike Basil Newton, the British minister in Prague, Henderson initially advocated plans to turn Czechoslovakia into a federation, writing to Lord Halifax \"how to secure, if we can, the integrity of Czechoslovakia\". At a meeting with Vojtech Mastny, the Czechoslovak minister in Berlin, on 30 March 1938, Henderson admitted that Czechoslovakia had the best record for the treatment of its minorities in Eastern Europe, but criticised Czechoslovakia for being an unitary state, which he argued caused too many problems in a state made up of Czechs, Slovaks, Magyars, Germans, Poles and Ukrainians. Henderson told Mastny that he felt becoming a \"Federal State\" was Czechoslovakia's best hope and wanted Czechoslovakia to reorient its foreign policy upon \"Prague-Berlin-Paris axis\" instead of the existing \"Prague-Paris-Moscow axis\". In the spring of 1938, Henderson formed an alliance with Newton to work together to persuade decision-makers in London to side with Germany against Czechoslovakia. When Henderson sent Newton a private letter praising him for his pro-German dispatches on 19 May 1938, the latter replied with a letter saying he hoped Henderson would \"be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize and when that is done, I hope I may receive honorable mention. You have much the hardest job\". \n\nDuring the May Crisis of 20-21 May 1938, Henderson was badly shaken by the partial Czechoslovak mobilisation, which for him proved that President Edvard Beneš was a dangerous and reckless man. At the same time, Henderson formed alliances with Baron Ernst von Weizsäcker, the State Secretary of the \"Auswärtiges Amt\"; André François-Poncet, the French ambassador in Berlin and Baron Bernardo Attolico, the Italian ambassador in Berlin; to work together to peacfully \"manage\" Germany's return to great power status. Acting independently of their own national governments, Weizsäcker, Attolico, Henderson and François-Poncet all worked together in a common front on one hand to sabotage the plans of Hitler and Ribbentrop to attack Czechoslovakia while at same time working to ensure the Sudetenland, the ostensible object of the German-Czechoslovak dispute, be handed over to Germany. Attolico, Weizsäcker, , Henderson and François-Poncet would meet in secret to discuss in French to share information and to devise strategies for stopping a war in 1938. Weizsäcker and Henderson both wanted a \"chemical dissolution of Czechoslovakia\" instead of the \"mechanical dissolution\" (i.e war) favored by Hitler and Ribbentrop. After Göring, Weizsäcker was the German official Henderson was most close to during his time in Berlin. \nDespite his earlier pro-Yugoslav views, Henderson during his time in Berlin started to display strong anti-Slavic views, writing to Lord Halifax on 22 August 1938: \"The Teuton and the Slav are irreconcilable-just as are the Briton and the Slav. Mackenzie King told me last year after the Imperial Conference that the Slavs in Canada never assimilated with the people and never became good citizens\". As the crisis over the Sudetenland region intensified in September 1938, Henderson became convinced that Britain should not fight a major war with Germany, which jeopardised the British Empire, over the Sudetenland, all the more so as he believed that it was it \"unjust\" for the Treaty of Versailles to have assigned the Sudetenland to Czechoslovakia in the first place. In September 1938, Henderson along with Lord Halifax and Sir Horace Wilson, the Chief Industrial Adviser to the government, were the only ones aware of Chamberlain's \"Plan Z\" to have the Prime Minister fly to Germany to meet Hitler personally and find out just exactly it was that he wanted with the Sudetenland. \n\nAfter Hitler gave his keynote speech at the 1938 Nuremberg Party Rally on 12 September 1938 demanding that President Beneš either allow the Sudetenland to join Germany or else he would invade Czechoslovakia, Henderson who attended the Nuremberg rally reported to London that Hitler \"driven by the megalomania inspired by the military force which he has built up...he may have crossed the borderline into insanity\". In the same dispatch, Henderson wrote he could not speak with \"certitude\" over what Germany might do as \"everything depends on the psychology of one abnormal individual\". Henderson spoke with Hitler after he gave his speech at the Party Rally, and reported that Hitler \"even while addressing the Hitler Youth\" was so nervous that he could not relax, leading to Henderson to conclude: \"His abnormality seemed to me even greater than ever\". Despite Henderson's belief that Hitler might have actually gone mad, he still found much to admire about \"Der Führer\", writing he had \"sublime faith in his own mission and that of Germany in the world\" and \"he is a constructive genius, a builder and no mere demagogue\". Henderson did not believe that Hitler wanted all of Czechoslovakia, writing to Lord Halifax that all Hitler wanted was to secure \"fair and honorable treatment for the Austro- and Sudeten Germans\" even at the price of war, but Hitler \"hates war as much as anyone\". \n\nHenderson was ambassador at the time of the 1938 Munich Agreement, and counselled Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain to enter into it. Shortly thereafter, he returned to London for medical treatment, returning to Berlin in ill-health in February 1939 (he would die of cancer less than four years later). Sir Oliver Harvey, the Private Secretary to Lord Halifax wrote in September 1938 that: \"Nevile Henderson's very presence here is a danger as he infects the Cabinet with his gibber\".\n\nIn October 1938, Henderson was diagnosed with cancer, causing him to leave for London. During the interval between October 1938-February 1939, the British Embassy in Berlin was run the charge d'affairs, Sir George Ogilvie-Forbes, a member of the Scottish gentry and a protege of Vansittart. During this period, the dispatches from Berlin changed markedly as Ogilvie-Forbes stated his belief that Hitler's aims went beyond revising the Treaty of Versailles towards winning Germany \"world power status\". Ogilvie-Forbes wrote to London 6 December 1938 that based on the information he was receiving that he believed Hitler would start a war sometime in 1939 with \"Der Führer\" only divided about whatever it would be in western Europe or eastern Europe. Unlike Henderson, who tended to gloss over the sufferings of the German Jewish community, Ogilvie-Forbes gave far more attention to Nazi antisemitism. Ascher, himself a German Jew, noted in Ogilvie-Forbes's dispatches to London that there was a real sense of personal empathy with the sufferings of German Jews, which Henderson never displayed. After Hitler gave his \"Prophecy Speech\" to the \"Reichstag\" on 30 January 1939, Ogilvie-Forbes predicated that the \"extermination\" of Jews in Germany \"can only be a matter of time\". Henderson by contrast wrote that \"Jews and Communists\" were the principle \"warmongers\"; that British Jews caused all of the Germanophobia in Britain; Jews around the world would \"move heaven and earth\" to cause an Anglo-German war; and \"Jews, Communists and the intelligentsia\" were the chief trouble-makers in the world. To counter the negative reaction caused by the \"Kristalnacht\" pogrom in Britain, Henderson during his stay in London suggested to Herbert von Dirksen, the German ambassador to the Court of St. James that henceforward the persecution of German Jews be \"regularized in an orderly and systematic manner\" so as not to offend British public opinion so much. \n\nWhen Henderson returned to Berlin on 13 February 1939, his first action was to call a meeting of the senior staff of the British Embassy, where he castigated Ogilvie-Forbes for his negative tone in his dispatches during his absence and announced that henceforward all dispatches to London would have to conform to his views, and that any diplomat who reported otherwise would be fired from the Foreign Office. On 18 February 1939, Henderson reported to London: \"Herr Hitler does not contemplate any adventures at the moment...all stories and rumors to the contrary are completely without foundation\". In February 1939, Henderson cabled the FCO in London:\n\nOn 6 March 1939, Henderson sent a lengthy dispatch to Lord Halifax attacking almost everything everything Ogilvie-Forbes had written during his time when he was in charge of the British Embassy. Besides for disallowing Ogilvie-Forbes, Henderson also attacked British newspapers for negative coverage of Nazi Germany, especially the \"Kristallnacht\" pogrom, and demanded that the Chamberlain government impose censorship to end all negative coverage of the Third Reich. Henderson wrote: \"If a free press is allowed to run riot without guidance from higher authority, the damage which it may do is unlimited. Even war may be one of its consequences\". Henderson praised Hitler for his \"sentimentality\" and wrote \"the humiliation of the Czechs [at the Munich conference] was a tragedy\", but it was Beneš's own fault for failing to give the Sudeten Germans autonomy when he had the chance. Henderson called \"Kristallnacht\" a \"disgusting exhibition\" which was however \"comprehensible within limits. The German authorities were undoubtedly seriously alarmed lest another Jew, emboldened by the success of Grynszpan should follow his example and murder either Hitler or one of themselves\". \n\nAfter \"Wehrmacht\" troops on 15/16 March 1939 occupied the remaining territory of the Czechoslovak Republic in defiance of the Agreement, Chamberlain spoke of a betrayal of confidence and decided to withstand German aggression. Henderson handed over a protest note and was intermittently recalled to London. Henderson wrote that \"Nazism has crossed the Rubicon of the purity of race\" by creating the Protectorate of Bohemia-Moravia and the seizure of the \"Czech lands\" of Bohemia and Moravia \"cannot be justified on any grounds\". By late March 1939, there was a feeling within the cabinet that Henderson could no longer effectively represent Britain in Berlin, but Henderson was kept on for the want of a suitable \"grand embassy\" to send him to as a replacement. There was talk of sending Henderson to Washington; however there were objections that Henderson's tendency to commit \"calculated indiscretions\" would not mix well with the American press, who were inclined to report any indiscretions by public figures, calculated or not. The State Department made it clear to the Foreign Office that they felt that Henderson would be an embarrassment in Washington. When Henderson asked for leave to visit Canada in the spring of 1939, he was told that he would have to give the Foreign Office copies beforehand of any lectures he planned to give as by this point no-one in the Chamberlain government trusted Henderson to \"speak sensibly\" about Germany. \n\nOn 29 April 1939, the French ambassador in Berlin, Robert Coulondre reported to Paris that when Germany occupied the Czech part of Czecho-Slovakia on 15 March 1939, that Henderson, \"always an admirer of the National Socialist regime, careful to protect Mr. Hitler's prestige, was convinced that Great Britain and Germany could divide the world between them\" was very angry when he learned that the \"Reich\" had just violated the Munich Agreement as it \"wounded him in his pride\". Coulondre went on to write: \"Yesterday, I found him exactly as I knew him in February\". Coulondre added that Henderson had told him that the German demand that the Free City of Danzig be allowed to rejoin Germany was justified in his view and the introduction of conscription in Britain did not mean that British policies towards Germany were changing. Coulondre concluded \"it appears that events barely touched Sir Nevile Henderson, like water over a mirror...It would seem that he forgot everything and failed to learn anything\". Henderson's relations were Coulondre were unfriendly and cold as Coulondre distrusted both him and Weizsäcker, and unlike François-Poncet, he refused to join the \"group of four\" that had met in 1938 to stop a war. By early May 1939, Henderson was reporting to London that Hitler still wanted good relations with Britain, but only if the British would end \"the policy of encirclement\". Henderson further added that he believed in the \"justice\" of Hitler's demand that the Free City of Danzig rejoin Germany, writing that Danzig was \"practically a wholly German city\", and that Hitler did not want a war with Poland, through one might break out \"if his offer to Poland was uncompromisingly rejected\".\n\nDuring the Danzig crisis, Henderson consistently took the line that Germany was justified in demanding the return of the Free City of Danzig and that the onus was on the Poles to make concessions to Germany by allowing the Free City to \"go home to the \"Reich\"\". Henderson wrote to Lord Halifax about Danzig and the Polish Corridor: \"Can we allow the Polish government to be too uncompromising with them?\" Henderson felt that the Treaty of Versailles had been unjust towards Germany by creating the Free City of Danzig and giving the Polish Corridor and part of Silesia to Poland, and his preferred solution to the crisis was to have Britain pressure the Poles into concessions. However, Henderson did believe that Britain needed to deter Germany from attacking Poland while Britain pressured the Poles into concessions, and for this reason he favored the \"peace front\" as the best form of deterrence. Despite his distrust of the Soviet Union, he did support having the Soviet Union join the \"peace front\" as the best way of deterring Germany from invading Poland.\n\nOn the eve of the Second World War, Henderson came into frequent conflict with Sir Alexander Cadogan, Permanent Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. Henderson argued that Britain should go about rearmament in secret, as a public rearmament would encourage the belief that Britain planned to go to war with Germany. Cadogan and the Foreign Office disagreed. \n\nWith the signing of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact on 23 August 1939 and the Anglo-Polish military alliance two days later, war became imminent. On the night of 30 August, Ambassador Henderson had an extremely tense meeting with German Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop. Ribbentrop presented the German \"final offer\" to Poland at midnight, and warned Henderson that if he received no reply by dawn, the \"final offer\" would be considered rejected. The American historian Gerhard Weinberg described the scene: \"When Ribbentrop refused to give a copy of the German demands to the British Ambassador at midnight of 30–31 August 1939, the two almost came to blows. Ambassador Henderson, who had long advocated concessions to Germany, recognised that here was a deliberately conceived alibi the German government had prepared for a war it was determined to start. No wonder Henderson was angry; von Ribbentrop on the other hand could see war ahead and went home beaming.\"\nWhile negotiating with the Polish ambassador Józef Lipski and advising accommodation over Germany's territorial ambitions – as he had during the Austrian \"Anschluss\" and the occupation of Czechoslovakia – the Nazis staged the Gleiwitz incident and the Invasion of Poland began on 1 September. It was Henderson who had to deliver Britain's final ultimatum on the morning of 3 September 1939 to Minister Ribbentrop, stating that if hostilities between Germany and Poland did not cease by 11 a.m. that day, a state of war would exist. Germany did not respond, and Prime Minister Chamberlain declared war at 11:15 a.m. Henderson and his staff were briefly interned by the \"Gestapo\" before finally returning to Britain on 7 September.\n\nAfter returning to London, Henderson asked for another ambassadorship, but was denied. He wrote \"Failure of a Mission: Berlin 1937–1939\", which was published in 1940, in which he spoke highly of some members of the Nazi regime, including \"Reichsmarschall\" Hermann Göring, but not von Ribbentrop. He had been on friendly terms with members of the Astors' Cliveden set, which also supported appeasement. Henderson wrote in his memoirs how eager Prince Paul had been to illustrate his military plans to counter Mussolini's projected assault on Dalmatia, when the main body of the Italian Royal Army had been sent overseas. The historian A. L. Rowse described \"Failure of a Mission\" as \"an appalling revelation of fatuity in high place\".\n\nHe died on 30 December 1942 from cancer which he had been suffering from since 1938. He was staying at the Dorchester Hotel in London at the time. He never married. Informed by his doctors that he had around six months left to live, he wrote an anecdote-filled diplomatic memoir, \"Water Under the Bridges,\" posthumously published in 1945. Its final chapter defends his work in Berlin and the policy of \"appeasement,\" praises the late Prime Minister Chamberlain for being \"an honest and brave man,\" and argues on behalf of the Munich Agreement on the grounds that Britain was too weak militarily in 1938 to have stood up to Hitler; it also argues that if Germany had invaded Czechoslovakia, that nation would have fallen in, at most, a few months. \n\n\n\n", "id": "7719140", "categories": ["Ambassadors of the United Kingdom to Argentina", "Ambassadors of the United Kingdom to Yugoslavia", "1942 deaths", "Knights Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George", "British people of World War II", "Ambassadors of the United Kingdom to Paraguay", "1882 births", "Ambassadors of the United Kingdom to Germany", "Members of the Privy Council of the United Kingdom"], "title": "Nevile Henderson"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719153", "text": "Juan María Gutiérrez\n\nJuan María Gutiérrez (May 6, 1809 – February 26, 1878) was an Argentine statesman, jurist, surveyor, historian, critic, and poet.\n\nHe was a major figure in Argentine liberalism and one of the most prominent promoters of Argentine culture during the 19th century. His oeuvre includes novels, Costumbrist dramas, biographies, literary criticism, and scientific works.\n\nHis political career began after the fall of Juan Manuel de Rosas in 1852. He represented Entre Ríos at the Argentine constitutional convention the following year. Between 1854 and 1856 he served as minister of foreign relations for the Argentine Confederation. Along with Esteban Echeverría, he was one of the founders of the Asociación de Mayo, an intellectual movement of the Rio de la Plata region.\n\nGutiérrez was also a major figure of science and technology within Argentina. He was rector of the University of Buenos Aires from 1861 until his retirement in 1874. During his tenure, numerous distinguished European professors joined the university's faculty. Along with Hermann Burmeister, he launched the study of natural sciences in Argentina.\n\nGutiérrez was acquainted with letters from an early age, but did not disdain the sciences, and was especially fond of mathematics. He studied engineering as much as he did law. He earned his doctorate in jurisprudence at age 27 with the thesis \"Sobre los tres poderes públicos\" (\"On the three public powers\"). He was exempt from paying tuition due to his family's poor economic standing, but chose to pay his own way as a surveyor and engineer with the Topographical Department, by producing translations, and by contributing to literary journals.\n\nHe formed and presided over the \"Association of Historical Studies\" and regularly attended meetings of the \"Literary Salon\" founded by Marcos Sastre. In 1837 he delivered his lecture \"Physiognomy of Spanish learning\".\n\nDuring the rule of Juan Manuel de Rosas, Gutiérrez's support for Argentine exiles in Montevideo led to his dismissal and imprisonment. He himself moved to Uruguay in 1840 when it was discovered that he had collaborated anonymously to \"El Iniciador\", a periodical critical of Rosas. At the same time he continued to produce works as an engineer and topographer. Along with Juan Bautista Alberdi and Esteban Echeverría, he founded the Asociación de Mayo. In 1843 he and Alberdi traveled through the Americas and Europe. During a sojourn in Valparaíso, Chile, Gutiérrez devoted himself to teaching and writing. Among his works from this period was the critically acclaimed \"América Poética\". He became the first director of the Naval Academy in Valparaíso. He published biographies translated from the French, as well as the results of his investigations of the new world.\n\nThe fall of Rosas in 1852 allowed Gutiérrez to return to Argentina, where he attended the Constitutional Convention of 1853 as a supporter of the San Nicolás Agreement. As minister of foreign relations of the Argentine Confederation under Justo José de Urquiza, he contributed to the success of the San José de Flores Agreement in 1859, which reunited Buenos Aires and the provinces of the Argentine Confederation.\n\nGutiérrez began a career as a journalist in Buenos Aires and also served as a national deputy. President Bartolomé Mitre appointed him rector of the University of Buenos Aires, in which capacity he served from 1861 to 1874.; he established the university's School of Engineering in 1866. He later attended the Constitutional Convention of Buenos Aires between 1870 and 1873.\n\n", "id": "7719153", "categories": ["19th-century historians", "Argentine scientists", "Foreign ministers of Argentina", "Argentine historians", "Argentine naturalists", "1809 births", "1878 deaths", "People from Buenos Aires", "Argentine educators", "Argentine male writers"], "title": "Juan María Gutiérrez"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719170", "text": "A Statue for Father\n\n\"A Statue for Father\" is a humorous science fiction short story by American writer Isaac Asimov. The story first appeared in the February 1959 issue of \"Satellite Science Fiction\" and was reprinted in the 1975 collection \"Buy Jupiter and Other Stories\".\n\nA theoretical physicist and his son work on the theory of time travel, and experiment with a method of reaching back into time and retrieving objects (as also occurs in \"The Ugly Little Boy\" and \"Button, Button\").\n\nMore by serendipity than design, they manage to retrieve a nest of dinosaur eggs which in due course hatch. They keep on working but are unable to repeat the experiment. In the meantime, the dinosaurs grow and are kept as pets. But when one of them accidentally gets electrocuted, they can't resist tasting the flesh beneath the scales and find that it tastes delicious.\n\nThe two men decide to raise the dinosaurs to be killed for food and open the first of a successful chain of restaurants dedicated to serving \"dinachicken.\". \n\nThe ironic twist of the title is that the physicist is remembered not for his scientific achievements, but for his culinary discovery.\n", "id": "7719170", "categories": ["1959 short stories", "Works originally published in Satellite Science Fiction", "Novels about dinosaurs", "Science fiction short stories", "Short stories by Isaac Asimov"], "title": "A Statue for Father"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719174", "text": "George Washington Harris\n\nGeorge Washington Harris (March 20, 1814 – December 11, 1869) was an American humorist best known for his character, \"Sut Lovingood,\" an Appalachian backwoods reveler fond of telling tall tales. Harris was among the seminal writers of Southern humor, and has been called \"the most original and gifted of the antebellum humorists.\" His work influenced authors such as Mark Twain, William Faulkner, and Flannery O'Connor.\n\nHarris moved to Knoxville, Tennessee, as a child, where he worked variously as a silversmith, riverboat captain, and farmer. His earliest works were political satires published in the \"Knoxville Argus\" around 1840, and his earliest attributable works were four sporting stories published in the New York \"Spirit of the Times\" in 1843. He wrote his Sut Lovingood tales for various newspapers in the 1850s and 1860s, twenty-four of which he compiled and published as his only book, \"Sut Lovingood: Yarns Spun By a Nat'ral Born Durn'd Fool\", in 1867. Harris died in Knoxville in 1869 after mysteriously falling ill on a train ride.\n\nThe details of Harris's early life are obscure. His father, George Harris, and a companion, Samuel Bell, moved to Pennsylvania in the 1790s. Bell's son, also named Samuel, was born in 1798. After the elder Bell died, Harris married his widow, Margaret Glover Bell, and they gave birth to George Washington Harris in Allegheny City (now part of Pittsburgh) in 1814. In 1819, Harris's half-brother, the younger Samuel Bell, completed an apprenticeship at an arms factory and moved to Knoxville to open a jewelry store. Harris went with him and was apprenticed at the shop.\n\nIn 1826, a steamboat known as the \"Atlas\" became the first to reach Knoxville from the Mississippi River. Harris built a small model of the \"Atlas\" and dazzled an audience by sailing it across the so-called \"Flag Pond\" on the north side of town. At age 15, Harris rode horses in \"quarter races\" (i.e., races over a quarter of a mile) at tracks in the Knoxville vicinity. In 1835, he was hired as captain of the steamboat \"Knoxville\". As captain of this vessel (later renamed the \"Indian Chief\"), Harris took part in the Cherokee removal in 1838.\n\nIn 1839, Harris left the steamboat business and purchased a farm near Maryville. Around 1840, he published his first political satires in the \"Knoxville Argus\" (later renamed the \"Standard\"), a Democratic-leaning newspaper edited by Elbridge Gerry Eastman (1813–1859), with whom Harris would form a lifelong partnership. Since articles in the \"Argus\" were typically published under generic pseudonyms, it is not known with certainty which articles Harris wrote.\n\nBy early 1843, Harris had moved back to Knoxville to operate a metalworking shop. That same year, he published four \"Sporting Epistles,\" the earliest known works attributable to him, in the New York \"Spirit of the Times\". In 1845, he published \"The Knob Dance: A Tennessee Frolic,\" in response to a Mississippi writer who had derided East Tennessee as bland and overly obsessed with religion. Over the next two years, he wrote several more stories for the \"Spirit\", culminating with, \"There's Danger In Old Chairs\" in 1847.\n\nIn the late 1840s, Harris turned to inventing and claimed to have prepared several articles for \"Scientific American\", but no such articles have been found. Over the subsequent decade, he engaged in various enterprises, which included the founding of a glassworks and the cofounding of a sawmill, both of which apparently failed. He was elected an alderman for Knoxville in 1856 and appointed the city's postmaster the following year.\n\nAround 1854, Harris surveyed several copper mines in the Ducktown area in southeast Tennessee. While working in the area, it is believed he met a local farmer, William \"Sut\" Miller (d. 1858), who inspired his best-known character, Sut Lovingood. In November 1854, Harris published his first Sut Lovingood tale, \"Sut Lovingood's Daddy, Acting Horse,\" which would also be his last entry in the \"Spirit of the Times\". For the remainder of the decade, his preferred outlet was the Nashville \"Union and American\", edited by his old friend, Elbridge G. Eastman.\n\nAs the rift between the North and South widened in the years leading up the Civil War, Harris, an ardent Democrat and secessionist, moved to Nashville and began writing political satires in support of the South. These included his four-part story \"Love-Feast of Varmints,\" which lampooned the Opposition Party's March 1859 Nashville convention, and three Sut Lovingood tales in 1861 that attacked President Abraham Lincoln. In early 1862, Harris fled Nashville ahead of invading Union forces and spent the remainder of the war evading the Union Army.\n\nAfter the war, Harris, with the help of future Chattanooga congressman William Crutchfield, was appointed president of the Wills Valley Railroad (which operated in Georgia and Alabama). In 1866, he published \"Sut Lovingood Come to Life,\" an attack on the Radical Republicans. The following year, he published his only book-length work, \"Sut Lovingood: Yarns Spun By a Nat'ral Born Durn'd Fool\", which was a collection of twenty-four Sut Lovingood tales, sixteen of which had been published in various newspapers prior to the war.\n\nFollowing the success of \"Sut Lovingood Yarns\", Harris made plans to publish a new collection of stories entitled \"High Times and Hard Times\". In late November 1869, he travelled from his new home in Alabama to Lynchburg, Virginia, to show his manuscript to a prospective publisher. On December 11, while riding the train back to Alabama, Harris fell gravely ill somewhere near Bristol, Tennessee. When the train stopped in Knoxville, Harris, unconscious, was taken to the Atkin Hotel, which stood on North Gay Street.\n\nAt the Atkin, Harris was examined by a doctor, who issued a preliminary diagnosis of apoplexy. Later in the evening, four other doctors arrived, including Harris's brother-in-law, John Fouche. These doctors rejected the initial diagnosis and suggested a possible morphine overdose. Around 10:00 PM, Harris briefly regained consciousness and managed to say one final word: \"poisoned\". He died shortly afterward, with the official cause listed as \"unknown.\" No copy of his manuscript \"High Times and Hard Times\" has ever been found.\n\nHarris's earliest attributable works in the \"Spirit of the Times\" were four letters, or \"epistles,\" to the \"Spirit\"'s editor, William T. Porter. The first of these, entitled \"Sporting Epistle from East Tennessee,\" was an account of a raccoon hunt in which the hunters mistook a bulge in a tree for a raccoon. The second involves a mountaineer who travels several miles to watch a quarter-race in south Knox County but misses the race due to drinking. The third epistle is a collection of anecdotes and observations, and mentions a 100-pound fish caught at Forks-of-the-River in east Knox County. The fourth epistle describes a country dance at \"Tuck-a-lucky\" (Tuckaleechee) Cove in south Blount County.\n\nOne of Harris's earliest successes was \"A Snake-Bit Irishman,\" which appeared in the \"Spirit of the Times\" in 1846. The story involves several hunters in Morgan County who play a prank on an Irishman who had invited himself into their camp. The story relies on Irish stereotypes common at the time. In \"A Sleep-Walking Incident,\" also published in 1846, Harris claimed to have once spent the night with a farm family in northeastern Tennessee, during which he sleep-walked his way into bed with the farmers' daughters. While the enraged farmer threatened to shoot Harris, he allowed him a brief headstart on his horse, and Harris managed to escape.\n\nSut Lovingood, Harris's best-known figure, is a caricature of a stereotypical farmer of rural Southern Appalachia. Knoxville historian Jack Neely describes Sut as \"Huck Finn on amphetamines, a manic, perverse child of some backwoods holler where Idiocy and Genius fuse into one.\" Sut considers himself (somewhat proudly) to be a \"durnder fool\" than anyone, save his own father. He is fond of drinking whiskey and chasing girls, and relishes exposing hypocritical circuit riders and other religious figures and politicians.\n\nRevenge pranks are a common theme in the Sut Lovingood tales. In \"Parson John Bullen's Lizards,\" for instance, Parson Bullen, a fire-and-brimstone preacher, beats Sut with a club after catching him in the bushes with a girl at a camp meeting. Later, when Bullen is preaching to a large crowd, Sut releases several lizards, which crawl up Bullen's legs, prompting him to strip off his clothes in terror. Another target of Sut's revenge is Sicily Burns, a mountain woman who tricks Sut into drinking baking soda. In response, Sut causes a bull to wreak havoc at Sicily's wedding.\n\nSut's dialect is an exaggerated version of the South Midland dialect, commonly called \"Appalachian English\". Appalachian characteristics that frequently occur in Sut's speech include r-intrusion (e.g., \"orter\" for \"ought to\"), h-retention (e.g., \"hit\" instead of \"it\"), short \"e\" pronounced as short \"o\" (e.g., \"whar\" for \"where\"), and trailing t-intrusion (e.g., \"onct\" for \"once\").\n\nHarris was a strong Democrat, and his political writings either extolled Democratic leaders or lampooned leaders of opposing parties, namely the Whigs and Republicans. In his 1856 story, \"Playing Old Sledge For the Presidency,\" Harris has Sut Lovingood recount a dream in which presidential candidates James Buchanan, Millard Fillmore, and John C. Frémont play a card game for the presidency. Harris's 1859 story \"Love-Feast of Varmints\" mocked the Opposition Party's state convention using anthropomorphic animals to portray party leaders such as John Bell, Henry S. Foote and Neill S. Brown.\n\nIn 1861, Harris published his three-part attack on Abraham Lincoln entitled \"Sut Lovingood Travels With Old Abe as His Confidential Friend and Advisor.\" His first writings after the Civil War included \"Sut Lovingood's Dream\" and \"On the Puritan Yankee,\" which defended Southern values. In 1868, Harris published \"The Forthcoming Early Life of Sut Lovingood, By His Dad,\" which was a response to \"The Early Life of Grant, By His Father,\" which had appeared in the New York \"Ledger\" earlier that year. One of Harris's last political stories, entitled \"Well! Dad's Dead,\" was an allegory bemoaning the decline of the Southern way of life.\n\nAuthors Mark Twain, William Faulkner, and Flannery O'Connor all acknowledged inspiration from George Washington Harris's work. In 1867, Mark Twain wrote a review of \"Sut Lovingood's Yarns\" for a San Francisco newspaper in which he suggested the book would \"sell well in the west, but the eastern people will call it course and possibly taboo it.\" Faulkner read the Sut Lovingood yarns with \"amused appreciation,\" and O'Connor ranked him among the top American \"grotesque\" writers. In the Cormac McCarthy novel, \"Suttree\" (which is set in Knoxville), the book's title character is called \"Sut\" for short, which some writers suggest is a reference to Sut Lovingood.\n\nThe mid-20th century brought revived interest in Harris's work. Literary historians compiled biographical materials regarding Harris's life, and scoured old newspapers to find and catalog Harris's work. In 1967, Thomas Inge published a collection of Harris's known works that did not appear in \"Sut Lovingood's Yarns\" in 1867. The book was entitled, \"High Times and Hard Times\", after Harris's lost manuscript.\n\nIn 2008, George Washington Harris's final resting place was discovered in Brock Cemetery, Wildwood, Georgia. The literary/detective team was a group of scholars and writers from several states including Calhoun Community College faculty members located in Decatur, Alabama; a local historian from Decatur; and a writer based in Georgia. On April 20, 2008, a monument in his honor was erected at his burial site by Sigma Kappa Delta, an honor society for students studying English at two-year colleges.\n\n", "id": "7719174", "categories": ["Writers from Tennessee", "People from Knoxville, Tennessee", "1814 births", "Writers from Pittsburgh", "Southern United States in fiction", "American satirists", "American short story writers", "1869 deaths", "Appalachian writers", "Writers of American Southern literature", "American humorists"], "title": "George Washington Harris"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719190", "text": "List of Teletubbies episodes and videos\n\nThis is a list of \"Teletubbies\" episodes and videos.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719190", "categories": ["Teletubbies"], "title": "List of Teletubbies episodes and videos"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719193", "text": "Ignacio Agramonte International Airport\n\nIgnacio Agramonte International Airport () is an international airport in central Camagüey Province, Cuba. It serves the city of Camagüey and the resort village of Santa Lucía.\n\nDuring World War II, the airport was used by the United States Army Air Forces Sixth Air Force from 1942 until 1944. The 25th Bombardment Group 417th Bombardment Squadron flew B-18 Bolo bombers from the airfield, known as Camaguey Air Base, from 13 April 1942 though August 1943. The squadron flew antisubmarine missions over the northern Caribbean. The base was also used for air-sea rescue missions by the 1st Rescue Squadron.\n\nFrom 1 January 1943, the USAAF set up postal operations for Camaguey using Army Post Office, Miami with the address: 2714 APO MIA. The United States Navy also set up to use a non-descript number for postal operations. They used the Fleet Post Office, Atlantic located in New York City with the address: 617 FPO NY.\n\nThe airport is an inactive Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces air base:\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719193", "categories": ["Airports in Cuba", "Buildings and structures in Camagüey"], "title": "Ignacio Agramonte International Airport"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719202", "text": "Thillens Stadium\n\nThillens Stadium is a two-field baseball stadium in Chicago, Illinois. It has 2,400 seats and an average of 17,000 Chicago area children play there each year.\n\nThillens is at the northwest corner of Devon and Kedzie on land now owned by the Chicago Park District.\n\nThe stadium was founded in 1938 by Mel Thillens, Sr., owner of Thillens Inc. check-cashing business. Thillens' idea was to have a baseball park that anyone can use, rent-free. It cost Thillens a total of $6 million to build the park. In 1940 the ballpark erected lights for night use. In the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s both Little League games and men's 16-inch softball games were televised from the park by WGN-TV, with Jack Brickhouse announcing.\n\nIt was during a Little League telecast in the 1950s that the centerfield camera, now a staple of all baseball telecasts, was first used. According to Brickhouse, \"One of our cameramen, Chuck Seatsema, told me that the center-field scoreboard was only a couple hundred feet away. He had a feeling that if he put a camera out there, we'd get a nice shot of the little catcher giving signs and the little batter's face over the pitcher's shoulder.\"\n\nThe centerfield scoreboard contained a picture of the Thillens armored truck. Starting in 1974, if any player hit the sign, they would win a $5,000 savings bond.\n\nIn 1993, Mel Thillens, Sr. died, but his family continued to operate the field and a non-profit charitable foundation supported it. Over time, the foundation could not afford expenses and, in March 2005, Thillens Stadium closed. The city of Chicago and the Chicago Cubs combined to invest $1.5 million in repairs and the stadium reopened its doors in June 2006. The park has since been renamed The Stadium at Devon and Kedzie.\n\nAn area landmark was the giant baseball with the name Thillens on a large pole in the front of the ballpark on Devon Avenue. The ball was moved from Boys World, a clothing store on Devon that closed in the 1950s. Originally, the ball spun on the pole.\n\nSeveral years after the Chicago Park District took over the field the Thillens family requested that their family name be removed from the field. Mel Thillens, Jr. was quoted as saying the field wasn't being maintained and the Thillens family and business no longer wanted to be associated with it. The Chicago Park District claims to have maintained Thillens so it can “continue as a place of historical significance” that “thousands of children enjoy” each year. They obliged Mr. Thillens' request, removing the name from the field. At about the same time, the 60+ year-old giant baseball was removed, as it was deemed unsafe.\n\nThe annual Chicago Celebrity Softball games are hosted at Thillens Stadium. Those games have featured Michael Jordan, Chris Chelios, Minnie Miñoso, Rich Melman, Ferguson Jenkins, Randy Hundley, Billy Williams and Moose Skowron.\n\nOn July 28, 2009, the Chicago Bandits played the USSSA Pride in a National Pro Fastpitch women's softball game.\n", "id": "7719202", "categories": ["Baseball venues in Chicago", "Softball venues in Chicago"], "title": "Thillens Stadium"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719219", "text": "Nynke Klopstra\n\nNynke Klopstra (born April 5, 1973 in Giekerk, Friesland) is a former Dutch judoka. She won the bronze medal at the 2004 European Judo Championships in Budapest in the -48 kg class. In this class she won six consecutive Dutch National Championships from 1998 until 2003. After her success at the European Championships she suffered from several injuries and decided to end her career on 30 October 2006.\n\n", "id": "7719219", "categories": ["1973 births", "Dutch female judoka", "People from Tytsjerksteradiel", "Living people", "Sportspeople from Friesland"], "title": "Nynke Klopstra"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719228", "text": "Pompée Valentin Vastey\n\nPompée Valentin Vastey (1781 - 1820), or Pompée Valentin, Baron de Vastey, was a Haitian writer, educator, and politician. Vastey was what people at the time called a \"mulatto,\" because he was born to a white French father and a black Haitian mother. He served as secretary to King Henri Christophe and tutor to Christophe's son, Victor Henri. Vastey also claimed to have fought in Toussaint’s army and is said to have been the second cousin of the French novelist and playwright Alexandre Dumas (Daut 56; see also, Griggs 181). Vastey is best known for his essays on the history and contemporary circumstances of Haiti.\n\n\n", "id": "7719228", "categories": ["Haitian politicians", "Haitian people of Mulatto descent", "Haitian people of French descent", "1781 births", "1820 deaths", "male essayists", "Haitian essayists", "Haitian male writers", "Haitian educators"], "title": "Pompée Valentin Vastey"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719248", "text": "Vilo Acuña Airport\n\nVilo Acuña Airport () is an international airport serving Cayo Largo del Sur, a small coral island in Cuba. It is located within the special municipality (\"municipio especial\") of Isla de la Juventud.\n\nThe airport resides at an elevation of above mean sea level. It has one runway designated 12/30 with an asphalt surface measuring .\n\n", "id": "7719248", "categories": ["Airports in Cuba"], "title": "Vilo Acuña Airport"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719259", "text": "USCGC Tahoma (WMEC-908)\n\nUSCGC \"Tahoma\" (WMEC-908) is a United States Coast Guard medium endurance cutter. Her keel was laid on June 28, 1983 at Robert Derecktor Shipyard Incorporated, Middletown, Rhode Island. She was delivered August 12, 1987 and commissioned April 6, 1988. She is the third cutter to bear the name Tahoma, which is the Northwest Pacific Indian word that refers to the Cascade Range mountain peak now known as Mount Rainier. Her nickname, \"Mighty T\", was selected because it was the nickname of her predecessor, \"Tahoma\" (WPG-80), during World War II.\n\nOn 13 January 2010, the \"Tahoma\" was ordered to assist in the humanitarian relief efforts following the 2010 Haiti earthquake.\n\nDuring the afternoon of 16 January 2010 a boy was born on board to a Haitian woman while it was transporting wounded survivors from Port-au-Prince to the still-functional medical facilities of Cap-Haïtien, to the north.\nIn March 2018 the \"Tahoma\" intercepted 201 Haitian undocumented immigrants, in Bahamanian waters.\n\n", "id": "7719259", "categories": ["Famous-class cutters", "Ships of the United States Coast Guard", "2010 Haiti earthquake relief", "1987 ships"], "title": "USCGC Tahoma (WMEC-908)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719265", "text": "Lovell Beach House\n\nThe Lovell Beach House is located on the Balboa Peninsula in Newport Beach, California. The building was completed in 1926 and is now recognized as one of the most important works by architect Rudolf Schindler, second only to the Schindler House, built four years earlier for his family as a show house and studio. Both of these early houses by Schindler are considered landmarks of early modern architecture in America.\n\nThe residence is on the ocean front, not far from The Wedge at Newport Harbor, in a tightly packed neighborhood of buildings. The house is sheltered from the street on the west side by raising the living quarters above the ground level. The open space below reveals the reinforced concrete frames that were formed in the shape of a figure 8. Two stairways pass through the openings in the frames leading to the kitchen and the main entry. The garage is on the north side of the ground floor and the garden is on the south side, between the house and the beach.\n\nThe interior is arranged around a two-story living/dining room, with full height, curtain wall windows on the east and south side facing the ocean. The kitchen and breakfast area are located on the north side of the first floor, with a terrace on the ocean side over the garden. Lamps and built-in furniture were provided as part of the original design. Bedrooms on the second floor are connected by a corridor overlooking the main living room. Each of the bedrooms originally had access to an open sleeping porch, but these were enclosed by Schindler in 1928.\n\nThe client for the project, Philip M. Lovell, was inspired by a style of healthy living, with guidelines for proper diet and exercise. Schindler also adopted these principles and addressed these concerns in the design of the beach house. The arrangement of the living quarters on the north side of the house maximizes the circulation of fresh air. Each bedroom is furnished with windows for cross ventilation to eliminate the need for air conditioning.\n\nLovell also commissioned another house in Los Angeles. The Lovell \"Health House\" was completed in 1929 on Dundee Drive in Los Angeles, three years after the Beach House was finished. This commission was awarded to Richard Neutra, who was living with his wife in a part of Schindler's House and studio between 1926 and 1930. These two architects created houses that became classic forms of the new California residential design, and icons of the Modern movement in America.\n\nThe Los Angeles branch of the Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS) documented the house in 1968. The house today has much the same appearance as the photographs taken during the survey. The significance of the house was already apparent at the time:\n\nThe Lovell Beach House is generally considered one of the greatest works of pioneering modern architect, R. M. Schindler. It demonstrates an early use of concrete which predates and predicts the post-war Brutalist style, in which concrete is left unsurfaced, and structure is distinct from enclosure.\n\n... The house is lifted above its beach site and cradled in five concrete frames in the shape of figure 8's. These were poured in place. The enclosed areas were shop-fabricated and hoisted into position. The play of forms in the advancing and receding planes are related to the De Stijl movement begun in the Netherlands in 1917.\n\nThe Beach House was listed as a Registered Historic Place in California on February 5, 1974.\n\n\n", "id": "7719265", "categories": ["Houses on the National Register of Historic Places in California", "International style architecture in the United States", "National Register of Historic Places in Orange County, California", "Houses completed in 1926", "Historic American Buildings Survey in California", "Balboa Peninsula", "Constructivist architecture", "Houses in Orange County, California", "Rudolph Schindler buildings", "Modernist architecture in California", "Buildings and structures in Newport Beach, California"], "title": "Lovell Beach House"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719312", "text": "Choral scholar\n\nA choral scholar is a student either at a university or private school who receives a scholarship in exchange for singing in the school or university's choir. This is a common practice in the UK at schools attached to cathedrals where the choir is the Cathedral Choir, and at Oxford and Cambridge University Colleges, many of which have famous choirs.\n\nThe term is also used to refer to those who have taken a gap year to sing for a Cathedral choir, generally taking on the same responsibilities as the choir's lay clerks. If the Cathedral is linked to a Cathedral school, the scholarship may also involve part- or full-time work at that school.\n\n\nCollegium Regale – The Choral Scholars of King's College, Cambridge\nThe Gentlemen of St John's - The Choral Scholars of St John's College, Cambridge\nThe Choir of St John's College, Cambridge\nChoral Scholars of Trinity College, Toronto, Canada\nThe University of San Diego Choral Scholars\nSt. Paul’s Choral Scholars\nUniversity College Dublin Choral Scholars\n", "id": "7719312", "categories": ["Choir schools"], "title": "Choral scholar"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719314", "text": "Hardly Hurts at All\n\n\"Hardly Hurts at All\" is a 2003 single by Maria Arredondo from Maria Arredondo. This single is part from the second CD's version. Hardly Hurts at All peaked at number 5 in Norway.\n\nNorwegian CD Single\n", "id": "7719314", "categories": ["Songs written by Espen Lind", "2003 singles", "Maria Arredondo songs"], "title": "Hardly Hurts at All"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719323", "text": "Edward Knight Collins\n\nEdward Knight Collins I (5 August 1802 – 22 January 1878) was an American shipping magnate.\n\nHe was born on August 5, 1802 in Truro, Massachusetts to Israel Gross Collins (1776–1831) and Mary Ann Knight (c.1780-c.1802). His mother was a niece of Sir Edward Knight and she died shortly after Edward was born. His aunts then raised him. His father moved to New York City. At age thirteen in 1815, Collins left Truro for New Jersey to attend school. He then went to New York City as an apprentice clerk in the counting house of McCrea and Slidell. Within a few years, Edward moved to Delaplaine and Company.\n\nIn 1821 he joined his father's company and in January 1824 he became a partner in I. G. Collins & Son. In 1827 they started the first regularly scheduled packet service between New York City and Veracruz, Mexico. In 1826, Collins married Mary Ann Woodruff, the daughter of Thomas T. Woodruff. They had a son, Edward K. Collins II, as well as a daughter and at least one other child.\n\nAfter his father's death in 1831 he became involved with the cotton trade between New Orleans and New York. He bought his first shipping line in 1831. In 1836, he launched the Dramatic Line of sailing packets, which quickly became a major presence on what was then the world’s most important shipping route, between New York and Liverpool. He received a government subsidy in 1847 to carry mail on that same route, for which purpose he formed the New York and Liverpool United States Mail Steamship Company (the \"Collins Line\") to compete with Britain's Cunard Line. The new Line’s inaugural voyage took place in April 1850, and for the next six years its steamships were the biggest, fastest and most luxurious on the Atlantic. They were hugely expensive to operate, however, and in 1852 Collins was forced to go back to Congress to secure a major increase in his subsidy for carrying mail. This left him in a very vulnerable position when the increase was canceled in 1856 after two of the Line's four steamships sank: the \"Arctic\" had sunk in 1854 while carrying his wife and two of his children., and less than two years later the \"Pacific\" disappeared without a trace on her way back from Liverpool to New York. The Collins Line struggled on for another couple of years, using the insurance payouts for its two lost ships to build an even bigger steamer called the \"Adriatic\". But after its subsidy was reduced it simply could not make ends meet, and in February 1858 the Line finally folded.\n\nCollins moved to his summer home, \"Collinwood\" in Wellsville, Ohio, where he engaged in coal mining and oil drilling. He remarried, to Sarah Browne, and by 1862 he had moved back to New York City, where he died on January 22, 1878. He was buried in an unmarked grave in Woodlawn Cemetery, Bronx.\n\n", "id": "7719323", "categories": ["1878 deaths", "1802 births", "American businesspeople in shipping", "Burials at Woodlawn Cemetery (Bronx)", "People from Truro, Massachusetts"], "title": "Edward Knight Collins"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719344", "text": "Cable in the Classroom\n\nCable in the Classroom was an American division of the National Cable & Telecommunications Association that assisted the cable television industry in providing educational content to schools. The organization was founded in 1989. A Canadian organization, also called \"Cable in the Classroom\" (\"La câblo-éducation\" in French), was founded in 1995, and held the same scope as the US organization.\n\nCable stations broadcast educational television programs at specific times (usually early in the morning) commercial-free and notified Cable in the Classroom as to when the shows would air, which maintained a master list for educators to reference. This way, educators were able to record the programs for free and use them in school as learning tools for children. Copyrights were cleared so that educators could use the content of the listed programs as they wished for their syllabi and learning plans.\n\nOver the years however, many networks discontinued any effort at promoting Cable in the Classroom or setting aside programming for the organization's purposes, ceding more to direct marketing of their educational television programming to teachers and school districts via their home video departments, their Internet sites, or in the cases of networks such as ABC Family, Disney Channel and Cartoon Network, removing their involvement altogether, commensurate with the Internet ending other cable services tied to traditional scheduling such as \"near video on demand\". Another factor was likely the decline in VHS recorders, as DVRs with non-portable storage became the recording format of choice over DVD recorders, the equivalent successor to VCRs. Streaming video also played a factor in the reduction of Cable in the Classroom, as educators can now access and play content at any time via computers connected to in-classroom televisions and video projectors rather than on a set schedule.\n\nIn 2014, Cable in the Classroom was entirely discontinued in the United States with \"CNN Student News\" the only program left under the effort, and the NCTA redirected the former Cable in the Classroom portal to promote their \"Cable Impacts Foundation\" charity arm instead.\n\n\n", "id": "7719344", "categories": ["Educational television", "1989 establishments in the United States", "Cable television in the United States", "Cable television in Canada", "Non-profit organizations based in Washington, D.C.", "2014 disestablishments in the United States", "Non-profit organizations based in Canada"], "title": "Cable in the Classroom"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719350", "text": "Titanic Days\n\nTitanic Days is Kirsty MacColl's fourth studio album, released in 1993. Containing eleven tracks, \"Titanic Days\" was sometimes hard to get in years after its release, but it was remastered and re-released in 2005 by ZTT with a second CD of non-album tracks and some live recordings, including a version of \"Miss Otis Regrets\". In 2012, another remastered re-issue of the album was released by Salvo/ZTT, which again featured a second disc of bonus tracks.\n\nFollowing her 1991 album \"Electric Landlady\", MacColl returned to the studio to record the follow-up \"Titanic Days\". However, in 1992, when Virgin was sold to EMI, MacColl was dropped from the label, resulting in \"Titanic Days\" being recorded without being backed by a record deal. When the album was completed, ZTT Records agreed to release the album as a \"one-off\" release.\n\nThe album was recorded at a time when MacColl's marriage to Steve Lillywhite was disintegrating. As such, the album's material reflected her personal issues at that time. The album was recorded in a small home studio at Ealing, due to the limited budget. The musicians who appeared on the recordings, largely from MacColl's own live band, had agreed to wait for payment for their contributions until a record deal was agreed upon. MacColl and her band spent two days at Townhouse Studios in London, where all the backing tracks were recorded.\n\nAll tracks composed by Kirsty MacColl and Mark E. Nevin; except where indicated\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719350", "categories": ["Kirsty MacColl albums", "Albums produced by Steve Lillywhite", "1993 albums", "Albums produced by Victor Van Vugt"], "title": "Titanic Days"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719357", "text": "Streaker (video game)\n\nStreaker is an arcade adventure game published by Mastertronic on their \"Bulldog\" label in 1987. The game runs on Amstrad CPC, MSX and Sinclair ZX Spectrum.\n\nThe hero of the game is Carlin, a naked man who has been mugged and stripped, and needs to find all of his clothes. Carlin is in a town on the planet Zuggi, which resembles a town in Earth in many ways, with locations including an hotel, a cafe, a supermarket and a chemist's shop. As Streaker finds more clothes, he is able to enter more and more locations. The game is won when he is fully dressed.\n\nThe game is an arcade adventure, somewhere between a puzzle-based adventure game and an action game. Gameplay is controlled through a nested menu system, as in Mastertronic's \"Spellbound\". There are a multitude of items in the game, many of which can be used and some of which seem to have no purpose. Streaker can pick up keys to open doors, eat food items to raise his hunger levels, and needs to solve a number of simple puzzles.\n\nWhile most aspects of life on Zuggi are very similar to Earth, there are a number of fantastic elements in the world. For example, Streaker may teleport (\"beam transfer\") by using a number of different coloured beamers. These will teleport Streaker to the location of the corresponding beampad. These beampads can be moved by Streaker and are a good way to avoid thieves. Nice touches include Streaker's ability to advance time by acquiring a stopwatch (the game is played in real time, and you often need to wait for a particular location to open) and the \"Save\" and \"Load\" options appearing after Streaker picks up a Tape Recorder.\n\nStreaker's quest is made more difficult by the presence of a number of thieves. They will steal Streaker's clothes on contact, or cause him to lose a life if he is naked. The clothes may be regained from the thieves by finding and offering the thief an item that he wants.\n\nThe thieves are as follows:\n\nDespite the rather unusual aim of the game, there does not seem to be any prurient content therein. During the 1980s, young children occasionally unwittingly perplexed and embarrassed their teachers by telling them they had spent an evening \"playing Streaker\".\n\n", "id": "7719357", "categories": ["1987 video games", "Nudity", "Action-adventure games", "ZX Spectrum games", "MSX games", "Amstrad CPC games", "Mastertronic games"], "title": "Streaker (video game)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719386", "text": "Ruby Holler\n\nRuby Holler (2002) is a low fantasy novel for children by the American writer Sharon Creech, published by HarperCollins in 2002. It features adolescent orphan twins who are \"trouble\" and an eccentric older couple who adopt them and take them back to live in \"magical\" Ruby Holler (hollow).\n\nCreech won the annual Carnegie Medal from the British librarians, recognizing the year's best children's book published in the U.K. (Bloomsbury Children's Books). In a retrospective citation, the librarians call it \"a beautifully written story about love and trust and how the strength and goodness of human beings can overcome all the odds\". Creech was the first American winner of the British award and the first person to win both the American Newbery Medal (\"Walk Two Moons\", 1994) and the British Carnegie.\n\nThe story starts in the Boxton Creek Home, an 'orphanage' run by the Trepids - a strict and dishonest husband and wife. An imaginative thirteen-year-old boy named Dallas and his sassy and bold twin sister Florida have been living in the Home for a long time, often punished for breaking rules that the Trepids post all over the house. Over the years, the twins have been adopted many times and quickly returned to the Home. Because of this, they have been named the \"trouble twins.\" They have a plan to run away and take a train to a destination far from Boxton.\n\nOutside of Boxton, on a plot of land called Ruby Holler, Tiller and Sairy Morey, a very old couple whose children have grown up and moved away, are discussing their plans for a new adventure. The two decide to foster children, and they adopt Dallas and Florida. Although Sairy, a very kind and trusting old lady, is excited about having children at Ruby Holler again, Tiller - a \"crotchety old boot\" - is doubtful. The twins enjoy the freedom and adventure they find in the holler, but they're still suspicious and think that Tiller and Sairy will mistreat them the way others have - although their suspicions soon prove false. Tiller and Sairy tell Dallas and Florida they have been planning separate trips, and they want the twins to come: Dallas with Sairy to explore an island, and Florida with Tiller on a rafting trip. All four are uneasy about a separation from their life-long partner, but they don't speak about this. Tiller and Sairy use their \"understone funds,\" underground savings that they've kept for years, to pay for their travels.\n\nMeanwhile, Mr. Trepid hears about the understone funds from Dallas and Florida when they run into each other in Boxton, shopping for trip supplies. Mr. Trepid promises to pay a shady man called Z, who is a neighbor of Tiller and Sairy, to map out Ruby Holler. He doesn't say why he needs a map and Z feels uneasy because he likes Tiller and Sairy. He slowly begins the map while also helping the Ruby Holler family prepare for their trips. Dallas and Florida, however, still think that Tiller and Sairy are trouble and they decide to take some supplies and equipment and run away. They don't get far from the cabin. Sairy and Tiller \"find\" them camping out, and tell the twins it was a good idea to test the supplies and equipment. They suggest taking practice trips together, closer to home. While on their practice trips, Tiller and Sairy learn about the twins' past and realize that the Trepids are not trustworthy people.\n\nThe four start out on their trips to the river and the island. Z continues to stall with production of Mr. Trepid's map, feeling more protective of the kids since he believes that Dallas and Florida may really be his biological children: he sees their birth certificate birth certificate and it looks as if their mother was Z's runaway wife. Eventually he gives Mr. Trepid a map that shows possible hiding places, but Z has removed the understone funds to protect them from Mr. Trepid. On Tiller and Florida's small trip while rafting down a river, their boat capsizes and Tiller suffers a heart attack. Luckily, Dallas, Sairy, and Z find them in time and Tiller is taken to a hospital where he recovers. Z bonds with the twins and they set up traps for Mr. Trepid who looks for the understone funds but fails to find them.\n\nIn the end, two of Tiller and Sairy's biological children visit the Holler to check on Tiller's health and suggest that the twins go back to the Boxton Creek Home. Dallas and Florida hear their conversation and run away again before hearing Tiller and Sairy's denial. In the morning, Dallas and Florida smell their breakfast cooking as usual and return home to the cabin in Ruby Holler.\n\nDallas: Dallas is one of the protagonists of the novel. He is thirteen years old and was abandoned by his mother as an infant and lived at the Boxton Creek Home for his whole life, except when he was adopted and sent back by families that saw him and his sister as trouble. He is very imaginative and silent, often letting Florida speak for them both. He often thinks situations will turn out for the best, although he is often proven wrong. When a resident of the Boxton Creek Home was dying, Mr. Trepid told Dallas to save him, but he fails and the child dies. He somewhat admires Z and is close friends with Sairy.\n\nFlorida: Florida is Dallas's twin sister. Like him, she was abandoned to the orphanage at a young age and was sent to many homes with Dallas and then returned, and the two are very close to each other. She is very bold and outspoken, and very hateful of almost everything. She often thinks that she and Dallas can take care of themselves, although she does sometimes show care for others. When Florida first enters Ruby Holler, she is very suspicious of Tiller and Sairy, thinking they will be like other families before. She does not know how to swim, which is unfortunate when she falls out of the boat on a rafting trip, although she knows basic CPR, which she uses to revive Tiller after his heart attack.\n\nSairy: Sairy is an old woman who lives in Ruby Holler with her husband. She is very kind and compassionate, especially with children. She also is very trusting. Her dream is to have another adventure before she dies. She once lived in New York City, and Tiller wrote to her every week from Ruby Holler. Eventually she left the city and married Tiller. She has four children that are adults and have left Ruby Holler.\n\nTiller: Tiller is Sairy's cranky husband. He is about her age and, unlike her, is distrusting and doubtful, much like Florida. He was born on a houseboat and then lived in Ruby Holler all his life. When all his children left, he planted a tree in their memory, but it is accidentally chopped down by Dallas and Florida. His plan is to build a boat with Florida and take a rafting trip down a river. During the trip, the boat falls over in rough waters and he suffers a heart attack, although he eventually recovers.\n\nZ: Z (whose full name is never revealed) is Tiller and Sairy's neighbor. He's described as a shady figure who helps Mr. Trepid find the understone funds in exchange for a large amount of money. He is not very responsible, but he easily learns helpful information. He helps the Ruby Holler family prepare for their trips, during which he learns that Dallas and Florida are his children when he sees Dallas's birth certificate and sees his ex-wife's name listed as his mother. He is very good friends with Tiller and Sairy and helpful to them.\n\nMr Trepid: Mr. Trepid co-runs the Boxton Creek Home with his wife and assistant. He is very strict, posting rules in every room of the house and punishing the children who break the rules with chores or time in the basement \"thinking corner.\" He is also greedy, dreaming of expensive luxuries and an easy life. When he hears about Tiller and Sairy's understone funds, he hires Z to help him find the money.\n\nMrs Trepid: Mrs. Trepid is Mr. Trepid's wife, who also runs the orphanage. Like her husband, she is strict with children and dreams about an easier life. She often claims to suffer from constant migraines and is suspicious of her husband's actions to earn more money.\n\nIn a contemporary review for \"The Guardian\", Philip Pullman remarked on \"Ruby Holler\"'s \"larger-than-life, brighter-than-natural quality\" and concluded that while neither great literature nor the author's best work, \"it's a book that shows how very satisfying unobtrusive craftsmanship can be, even working with slight materials, and it's fun, and it celebrates kindness and decency.\" Regarding the main plot line, he observed that \"it's not hard to predict that there will be problems to overcome and dangers to face, but that they'll all live happily ever after.\" Creech makes it work for all kinds of readers by \"a complete certainty of tone\" and by \"putting the camera in the right place\". In particular, and unusually for a children's book, she \"distributes her attention equally among the adults and the children. She looks at whatever is interesting, whatever moves the story forward, and tells us what she sees, and never tells us more than we need.\"\n\nCreech traveled to London for five days in July 2003 to receive the Carnegie Medal. Concluding online coverage for \"The Guardian\", Dina Rabinovitch called \"Ruby Holler\" \"an old-fashioned tale of two children in peril rescued by the wisdom of two old folk. What sets it apart is Creech's typical lightness of touch; the glancing way she writes means you barely realise that, even in this solid love story of older folk, the wife is less sure of marriage than the man.\"\n\n", "id": "7719386", "categories": ["Carnegie Medal in Literature winning works", "Novels about orphans", "American children's novels", "American magic realism novels", "2002 children's books", "2002 American novels"], "title": "Ruby Holler"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719421", "text": "Bernard Fitzalan-Howard, 3rd Baron Howard of Glossop\n\nBernard Edward Fitzalan-Howard, 3rd Baron Howard of Glossop, MBE (10 May 1885 – 24 August 1972) was a British peer.\n\nFitzalan-Howard was the eldest son of Francis Fitzalan-Howard, 2nd Baron Howard of Glossop and Clara Louisa (Greenwood), and grandson of Edward Fitzalan-Howard, 1st Baron Howard of Glossop, and was educated at The Oratory School and Trinity College, Cambridge. He became a Captain in the Lovat Scouts during World War I and was awarded the MBE in 1920.\n\nOn 5 September 1914, he married Mona Stapleton, 11th Baroness Beaumont. He and his wife were one of the few couples who both held noble titles in their own right. They had eight children, all of whom were given names beginning with M:\n\n\nIn 1924, Fitzalan-Howard inherited his father's barony. He was heir presumptive since 17 May 1962 to his cousin the 16th Duke of Norfolk, but predeceased him by just over two years. As is customary, when his eldest son inherited the dukedom, the Sovereign granted his younger children the style and precedence that they would have had if their father survived.\n", "id": "7719421", "categories": ["Members of the Order of the British Empire", "1885 births", "1972 deaths", "Barons Howard of Glossop", "Lovat Scouts officers", "Howard family (English aristocracy)", "British Army personnel of World War I", "Alumni of Trinity College, Cambridge", "Barons in the Peerage of the United Kingdom"], "title": "Bernard Fitzalan-Howard, 3rd Baron Howard of Glossop"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719458", "text": "Lélé River\n\nThe Lélé or Lété is a river of Cameroon, in the south of the country.\n", "id": "7719458", "categories": ["Rivers of Cameroon"], "title": "Lélé River"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719476", "text": "Robert Cawdrey\n\nRobert Cawdrey (ca. 1538 – after 1604) was an English clergyman who produced one of the first dictionaries of the English language, the \"Table Alphabeticall\", in 1604.\n\nRobert Cawdrey did not attend university, but became a school teacher in Oakham, Rutland, in 1563. In 1565, Cawdrey was ordained deacon and priest in 1570, and on 22 October 1571, he was made rector of South Luffenham in Rutland. However, Cawdrey was sympathetic to Puritan teachings, and got in trouble with the Church authorities. In 1576 he was chastised for not reading the approved texts in his sermons, and in 1578 he performed a marriage even though he was not authorized to do so, and was briefly suspended. His suspension lasted only a few months but, in 1586, he was again in trouble for violating the rules and was called before his bishop, Richard Howland. He had powerful friends, among them his patron Lord Burghley, who tried to defend him, but he was deprived of his rectory in 1588 and had to return to teaching to support himself.\n\nWith the assistance of his son Thomas Cawdrey (1575–1640), who was a school teacher in London, Robert Cawdrey decided to create an instructional text; the \"Table Alphabeticall\", which appeared in 1604 when Cawdrey was living in Coventry.\n\nAs many new words were entering the English language in the 16th century, Cawdrey became concerned that people would become confused. Cawdrey worried that the wealthy were adopting foreign words and phrases, and wrote that \"they forget altogether their mothers language, so that if some of their mothers were alive, they were not able to tell or understand what they say.\" He also described how \"far journied gentlemen\" learn new words while in foreign lands, and then \"pouder their talke with over-sea language.\"\n\nThomas Cawdrey worked on improvements to the \"Table Alphabeticall\".\n\nWhile he was a rector, Robert Cawdrey wrote \"A Short and Fruitefull Treatise of the Profit of Catechising\" in 1580. He revised this work and published a second edition in 1604. Cawdrey also published \"A Treasurie or Store-House of Similes\" in 1600, and again in 1609.\n\nThe full name of his famous dictionary is \"A table alphabeticall conteyning and teaching the true writing, and understanding of hard vsuall English wordes, borrowed from the Hebrew, Greeke, Latine, or French, &c. With the interpretation thereof by plaine English words, gathered for the benefit & helpe of ladies, gentlewomen, or any other unskilfull persons. Whereby they may the more easilie and better vnderstand many hard English wordes, vvhich they shall heare or read in scriptures, sermons, or elswhere, and also be made able to vse the same aptly themselues.\"\n\nHis dictionary contained about 2,500 words. He was careful to explain the alphabetical order to his readers, which even the most literate of his readers would not know or expect; \"Nowe if the word, which thou art desirous to finde, begin with (a) then looke in the beginning of this Table, but if with (v) looke towards the end.\"\n\nRobert Cawdrey had many sons. His youngest son Daniel Cawdrey (ca. 1588-1664) was a Puritan minister.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719476", "categories": ["English lexicographers", "16th-century English writers", "1530s births", "People of the Tudor period", "17th-century male writers", "People from Oakham", "16th-century male writers", "17th-century English writers", "17th-century deaths"], "title": "Robert Cawdrey"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719489", "text": "List of Thor and Delta launches (1990–99)\n\nBetween 1990 and 1999, there were 89 Thor-based rockets launched, of which 85 were successful, giving a 95.5% success rate.\n\n", "id": "7719489", "categories": [], "title": "List of Thor and Delta launches (1990–99)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719502", "text": "Bostick\n\nBostick is a surname, a variation of the English surname \"Bostock\". It may refer to:\n\n\n", "id": "7719502", "categories": [], "title": "Bostick"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719513", "text": "Charles Justin Bailey\n\nCharles Justin Bailey (June 21, 1859 – September 21, 1946) was a Major-General in the United States Army who commanded the 81st Infantry Division during World War I.\n\nHe was born in Tamaqua, Pennsylvania on June 21, 1859. He graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1880 and in the same year was commissioned a second lieutenant in the 1st Artillery Regiment.\n\nBailey specialized in coastal artillery, and his earliest assignments included postings to: Fort Adams, Rhode Island; Fort Canby, Washington; the Presidio of San Francisco; Alcatraz Citadel, California; and Fort Mason. He was a student at the Fort Monroe, Virginia Artillery School in 1888, after which he was promoted to first lieutenant.\n\nIn the 1890s, Bailey's assignments included: the staff of the 1st Artillery at Fort Hamilton, New York; the staff of the Artillery District of New Orleans at Jackson Barracks; and professor of Military Science at the University of Vermont. In 1898 he received the honorary degree of master of arts from UVM.\n\nDuring the Spanish–American War, Bailey served at Fort San Jacinto, Texas as commander of Battery G, 1st Artillery Regiment, and then at Fort Preble, Maine, where he commanded a battery of the 7th Artillery Regiment. He was promoted to captain in 1899.\n\nAfter the war, Bailey serve at Sandy Hook Proving Ground until 1902. From 1902 to 1904 he was stationed at Fort Totten, New York and assigned to disburse funds on programs for acquiring and employing mines for defense U.S. harbors, as well as serving on a board that conducted experiments with using torpedoes for coastal defense. In 1905 he was promoted to major and assigned as commander of the Artillery District of New Orleans at Jackson Barracks. He subsequently served on the General Staff at the War Department and as Secretary of the Army War College. From 1908 to 1911, he was senior assistant to the Chief of Coast Artillery. He was promoted to colonel in 1911 and brigadier general in 1913.\n\nFrom 1911 to 1913, Bailey commanded the 1st Provisional Coast Artillery Regiment at Fort Crockett, Texas. In 1913 he was assigned to command the coast defenses of Puget Sound, Washington, after which he returned to Fort Totten as commander of the North Atlantic Coast Artillery District. From 1914 to 1917 he commanded the coastal defenses of Manila and Subic Bays in the Philippines.\n\nOn August 5, 1917, Bailey was promoted to major general in the National Army and assigned to command the Philippine Department. In 1918 he was assigned as commander of the 81st Division, which he commanded in France from 1918 to 1919.\n\nIn 1919, Bailey was selected to command the Middle Atlantic Coast Artillery District at Fort Totten, and returned to his permanent rank of brigadier general. He then commanded the 7th Division at Fort Meade, Maryland. He was again promoted to major general, and commanded the Third Corps area at Fort Howard, Maryland until retiring in 1922.\n\nHe was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal, the Order of Leopold (Belgium), the Croix de Guerre with palm, and was an officer of the Legion of Honor.\n\nHe suffered a hip fracture in a fall in July 1945 and never fully recovered. He died on September 21, 1946 at his home in Jamestown, New York. Bailey was buried at Lake View Cemetery in Jamestown.\n\nIn 1885, Bailey married Mary M. Dodge. They were the parents of two daughters, Omira and Merry. Omira Bailey was the wife of Army Colonel Alexander Wheeler Chilton, and Merry was the wife of Army Colonel Charles Lewis Gandy.\n\nBailey's first wife died in 1923. In 1924, he married Elizabeth Hegeman Bailey.\n\n", "id": "7719513", "categories": ["1946 deaths", "American military personnel of World War I", "Recipients of the Distinguished Service Medal (United States)", "United States Army generals", "People from Tamaqua, Pennsylvania", "United States Military Academy alumni", "1859 births", "United States Army generals of World War I"], "title": "Charles Justin Bailey"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719516", "text": "Huntley Project\n\nThe Huntley Project is an irrigation project in southern Montana that was established by the United States Bureau of Reclamation in 1907. The district includes the towns of Huntley, Worden, Ballantine, and Pompeys Pillar.\n\nSince the Huntley Project was established, the district's main cash crops have been sugar beets and alfalfa. Silage for the local cattle industry is also important.\n\nBison-hunting Plains Indians, especially the Cheyenne, Crow, and Sioux, frequented this region south of the Yellowstone River from the 17th century. William Clark passed through in July 1806 with members of the Corps of Exploration and inscribed his name on Pompey's Rock. The Yellowstone River provided a route into this sagebrush-covered country for white fur trappers, hunters, and settlers. The U.S. Army made war on the Indian tribes over several decades, and the famous Battle of Little Bighorn took place nearby in June 1876. \n\nThe district that now includes the Huntley Project was designated as part of the Crow Indian Reservation under a treaty ratified on May 7, 1868. This preserved the area from occupation by white homesteads and cattle ranches, but by 1880 the virtual extinction of the bison made the traditional Crow economy impossible to sustain. By 1895 Crow farmers successfully irrigated and farmed part of the reservation, which had been considered an arid wasteland. \n\nIn 1882 the city of Billings, linked to the Northern Pacific Railroad, was founded within a few miles of the Crow reservation. In 1904 the United States government obtained the northern part of the reservation by cession from the Crow Indians. Congress authorized the Reclamation Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior to survey the land for a possible irrigation project. The Huntley Project, the fifth federal project to convert arid western land to farmland, was authorized in April 1905, and construction began in October. Despite cost overruns and unforeseen problems, the Pryor Division of the project, including Worden and Ballantine, was completed and receiving water by 1907.\n\nThe project took its name from the town of Huntley, a station on the Northern Pacific Railroad. In 1907 the new Huntley Project townsites of Worden, Ballantine, and Pompeys Pillar were laid out at intervals of about six miles along the railroad. On May 21, 1907 President Theodore Roosevelt declared the Pryor Division to be open for settlement. Farm units were distributed by lottery, but the pace of settlement may have been slowed by \"lottery fanatics\" from nearby Billings who drew numbers out of idle curiosity, with no intention of settling on the land. Of the first 1,000 names drawn, only 76 applied for a farm unit. The population of Huntley Project farms rose to 2,107 in 1917, but fell again to a probable low of 1,015 in 1923.\n\nMuch of the irrigation infrastructure of the Huntley Project had been poorly designed and cheaply built, and replacements were soon needed. Growing demand for water required more irrigation canals and an auxiliary pumping station, and by 1913 problems with inadequate drainage had caused hundreds of acres of arid land to become waterlogged. Settlers found that alkali in the soil made it difficult to profitably farm the area, and many farms failed in the recession following World War I. Poor crop yields made it difficult for farmers to pay their portion of the district's costs, so Reclamation refused to fund needed improvements. Tensions between Reclamation and the district farmers peaked during the 1920s, until on January 2, 1927 the two sides settled their dispute with a new contract. \n\nLow water and dry weather in the 1930s led to the construction of the first retention dam, then a concrete weir in 1934. The Anita Dam and Reservoir project, about six miles southeast of Ballantine, was completed in 1937 by Civilian Conservation Corps workers.\n\n", "id": "7719516", "categories": ["Civilian Conservation Corps in Montana", "Buildings and structures in Yellowstone County, Montana", "Yellowstone County, Montana", "United States Bureau of Reclamation", "Engineering projects", "Irrigation Districts of the United States"], "title": "Huntley Project"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719525", "text": "Plano City Council\n\nThe Plano City Council is the governing body of the City of Plano, Texas, United States. The Council operates using the council-manager government. They hold regular meetings at the Plano Municipal Center on the second and fourth Monday of every month at 7 p.m. During the month of July, the meeting dates are revised.\n\nThe Plano City Council is composed of eight members from four administrative districts. Each Councilmember serves a four-year term, extended from three years by the passing of a charter amendment in 2012. All Councilmembers, including the Mayor, are limited to being elected to two four-year terms. All Councilmembers are elected by popular vote of the entire city of Plano. Those running for Places 1 through 4 must reside in the district that corresponds to that place number. Places 5 through 8 do not have residency restrictions. Place 6 is always the mayor.\n\nThe Mayor receives a yearly stipend of $18,000, and each Councilmember receives $12,000.\n\nLeadership:\n\n\nPlano Councilmembers are officially nonpartisan.\n\nEach year the City Council selects a certain number of citizen-applicants to serve on a board, commission or committee, as themselves or a Plano representative. An applicant must have been a resident of Plano already for at least 12 months, and they may not be chosen to serve more than two terms on a board, commission, or committee.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719525", "categories": ["Plano, Texas"], "title": "Plano City Council"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719528", "text": "Russ Heman\n\nRussell Frederick Heman (born February 10, 1933 in Olive, California) is an American former Major League Baseball relief pitcher.\n\nThe , right-hander was signed by the Chicago White Sox as an amateur free agent before the season. He went 34-34 with a 4.07 earned run average in four seasons in their farm system when he was dealt to the Baltimore Orioles on January 31, . The White Sox had sent Larry Doby, Jack Harshman and Jim Marshall to the Orioles for Billy Goodman, Tito Francona and Ray Moore on December 3, . When it was discovered by the Orioles that Harshman was suffering from a slipped disc, Baseball Commissioner Ford Frick ordered the Chisox to send either $20,000 or an acceptable player to the Orioles. Heman was sent to Baltimore to complete this deal.\n\nHeman went 9-12 with a 3.20 ERA for Baltimore's triple A affiliate, the Vancouver Mounties in 1958. After the season, he was dealt to the Cleveland Indians for Bobby Ávila. This trade also ran into some complications when Avila retired from baseball just after the deal. Eventually, the deal was worked out, and Heman went 6-12 with a 4.26 ERA for the Pacific Coast League's San Diego Padres in . One of those six wins was a no-hitter against the Mounties.\n\nAfter one more seasons in the minors, he made the big league club out of Spring training . His major league debut came in the sixth game of the season on April 20, against the Detroit Tigers at Cleveland Stadium. He pitched two innings, and gave up three earned runs in the 11-4 Indians loss. He struck out one batter, pitcher Frank Lary.\n\nFrom there, he settled down, earning his only big league save in his next appearance three days later against the Kansas City Athletics at Municipal Stadium. He only allowed one earned run over the remaining eight innings he pitched for the Tribe.\n\nHe was sold to the Los Angeles Angels on June 5 in order to make room on the roster for Dick Stigman, who was returning from the disabled list. He made six appearances in just over two weeks with the club, giving up three runs (two earned) in ten innings pitched. On June 22, he and shortstop Ken Hamlin were sent to the Toronto Maple Leafs of the International League for second baseman Billy Moran.\n\nHeman finished out the season with Toronto, and pitched two more seasons in the minors before calling it a career. Season and career totals include twelve games pitched, all in relief, a 0-0 record and one save. In twenty innings, he allowed twelve hits and 10 walks for a very low WHIP of 1.100. He struck out six and had an ERA of 2.70.\n", "id": "7719528", "categories": ["Los Angeles Angels players", "Living people", "Baseball players from California", "Toronto Maple Leafs (International League) players", "Major League Baseball pitchers", "Vancouver Mounties players", "Chattanooga Lookouts players", "San Diego Padres (minor league) players", "Colorado Springs Sky Sox (WL) players", "1933 births", "Wisconsin Rapids White Sox players", "Denver Bears players", "Waterloo White Hawks players", "Cleveland Indians players"], "title": "Russ Heman"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719532", "text": "Bo Aung Kyaw Day\n\nOn 20 December 1938, Bo Aung Kyaw was murdered by the British Indian Imperial Police during the third Rangoon University student boycott. Bo Aung Kyaw Day (20 December) commemorates him as the first student leader who died in the independence struggle of Myanmar.\n\nIn December 1938, striking workers from the Chauk and Yenangyaung oilfields of the Burmah Oil Company marched to Rangoon to meet the British authorities. When the strikers reached Rangoon, they joined up with Rangoon University students who were staging their third annual protest against colonial rule. The demonstration, which blocked access to the Secretariat, the seat of the colonial government, was broken up by the mounted police. Many students, including Kyi Maung and Aung Kyaw, received serious injuries, and the latter later succumbed to a head injury received from a police baton. Aung Kyaw was posthumously conferred the title \"Bo\" (leader) by the students.\n", "id": "7719532", "categories": ["December observances", "Nationalist movements of Myanmar"], "title": "Bo Aung Kyaw Day"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719542", "text": "I Stand Alone (Al Kooper album)\n\nI Stand Alone is American singer-songwriter Al Kooper's 1969 debut album issued on Columbia Records. It was recorded after his collaboration with Michael Bloomfield and Stephen Stills on the 1968 album \"Super Session\".\n\nAfter ten years of session playing, collaborations and playing in other bands, Kooper released his first solo album in February, 1969. It is an eclectic mix of country, soul, blues, and rock with a dose of psychedelia mixed throughout. It is a continuation of \"Super Session\" in its mix of disparate covers from the likes of Bill Monroe, Harry Nilsson and Traffic, and with originals running the gamut of feelings.\n\nUnlike the \"Super Session\" album, however, the spotlight is on Kooper alone and Kooper's alternate utilization of orchestras and professional Nashville studio musicians; the tracks are far more focused, all within two and five minutes. \"Camille\" is lifted from \"Overture to Le Domino Noire\" by French composer Daniel Auber.\n\nMost tracks are bridged with sound effects taken from albums issued by Elektra Records. The Overture begins with a collage of sound effects also taken from those albums. While it seems distracting now, it is a product of the era that it was recorded in. The album was on the \"Billboard\" 200 charts for 13 weeks, peaking at #54 on March 15, 1969.\n\nAll tracks composed by Al Kooper; except where indicated\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719542", "categories": ["Al Kooper albums", "1968 debut albums", "Columbia Records albums", "Albums conducted by Charles Calello"], "title": "I Stand Alone (Al Kooper album)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719546", "text": "City of Bangor (ship)\n\nCity of Bangor was a freighter that had a 30-year career on the Great Lakes. Originally designed to carry ore, the ship was converted into an automobile carrier in 1925. She was trapped in ice on Lake Superior November 30, 1926, and after multiple salvage attempts, \"Bangor\" was declared a total loss.\n\n\"City of Bangor\" was captained by William J. Mackin. On the night of November 30, 1926, \"Bangor\" was carrying 248 new Chrysler automobiles from Detroit, Michigan to Duluth, Minnesota, when a severe storm drove her onto the rocks of the Keweenaw Peninsula, on Michigan's Upper Peninsula. Eighteen cars that were spiked to the deck of the ship slipped overboard and were lost. During the same storm, \"Thomas Maytham\", which was carrying 20,000 tons of grain from Duluth to Toledo, Ohio, went aground on the other side of the peninsula.\n\nThe next morning, after the winds had subsided, \"Bangor\"s crew managed to free the lifeboats, and by afternoon all the men had made it ashore. They began to walk to the nearest village, Copper Harbor, which was about 15 miles away, but became lost in the unfamiliar territory. They spent the night with a fire but no shelter, inadequate clothing, and no food.\n\nThe next day, a United States Coast Guard rescue lifeboat, out of Eagle Harbor Life Saving Station, came around the point while carrying \"Thomas Maytham\"s crew, and discovered \"Bangor\"s crew. The Coast Guard captain dropped off the men from \"Thomas Maytham\" at Copper Harbor and returned for the men from \"City of Bangor\". The men were exhausted and suffering from hypothermia; several were hospitalized with frostbite.\n\nThe majority of the Chryslers were in the hold, separated from the flooded engine room by a strong partition. A visual inspection of the hold showed that the cars were in good condition. When the water around the wrecked ship had frozen solid, an ice ramp was constructed, and the cars were driven off the ship. The area around the Keweenaw Peninsula was heavily forested and buried in about of snow, so the cars were driven along the icy banks of the lake to Copper Harbor. When the roads opened in the spring, the cars were driven to Calumet, Michigan, loaded onto trains, and taken to Detroit for repair and re-sale. \"City of Bangor\" herself was a total loss, but 202 of the vehicles were salvaged from the wreck and sold.\n\nThe \"City of Bangor\" wreck site is now part of the Keweenaw Underwater Preserve, established in 1991, along with the nearby wrecks of \"Altadoc\" and \"Scotia\", and she can be visited by scuba divers. The only remaining part of the Eagle Harbor Life Saving Station, the boathouse, is now a museum containing shipwreck memorabilia including one of the 1927 Chryslers from \"City of Bangor\".\n\n", "id": "7719546", "categories": ["Maritime incidents in 1926", "Shipwrecks of Lake Superior"], "title": "City of Bangor (ship)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719562", "text": "Lélé, Cameroon\n\nLélé is a town in southern Cameroon, near the junction of the borders of Cameroon, Gabon and Congo-Brazzaville.\n\n\n", "id": "7719562", "categories": ["Populated places in Cameroon"], "title": "Lélé, Cameroon"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719568", "text": "William Stewart Agras\n\nWilliam Stewart Agras (born 17 May 1929 London) is an American psychiatrist and psychotherapist of British origin, research psychiatrist and Emeritus (Active) Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science at Stanford University. He normally goes by Stewart Agras.\nHis primary research interest is in the application of basic psychology to investigation of behavior change in medical and psychiatric problems such as treatment compliance, essential hypertension and other cardiovascular risk factors, and anxiety disorders. In 1974 he began one of the first programs in Behavioral Medicine in the United States, a program that continues today at Stanford University. Beginning in 1985 the majority of his work has been in the area of eating disorders, with studies ranging from epidemiology, basic psychological mechanisms, and treatment. The principal theme of his research has been the understanding of human feeding and its disorders, namely: obesity, anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and binge eating disorder.\n\nAgras received his MD from the Middlesex Hospital Medical School now University College of the University of London in 1955. He did a residency and Fellowship in psychiatry at McGill University in Montreal Quebec in 1956–1961.\n\nFrom 1961–1969 Agras was a faculty member at the University of Vermont Medical College. He then served as Chair of the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Mississippi Medical Center in Jackson, Mississippi for the next four years where he developed a Department in which psychology and psychiatry were placed on an equal footing and the role of clinical psychologists became one of research and teaching.\n\nAgras was an early developer of Behavioral Therapy. He came to Stanford in 1973.\n\nHe was Editor of the Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis from 1974–1977 and of the \"Annals of Behavioral Medicine\" from 1987–1990. He was also the first President of the Society for Behavioral Medicine 1978–1979, and President of the Association for the Advancement of Behavior Therapy 1985–1986.\n\n", "id": "7719568", "categories": ["Living people", "Stanford University School of Medicine faculty", "American psychotherapists", "1929 births", "American psychiatrists"], "title": "William Stewart Agras"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719611", "text": "Ray Genet\n\nRay Genet (July 27, 1931 – October 2, 1979), often referred to by the nickname Pirate, was a Swiss-born American mountaineer. He was the first guide on North America's highest mountain, Alaska's Denali (Mount McKinley).\nGenet is the grandfather of actress Q'Orianka Kilcher.\nGenet's association with Denali began in 1967, when, although he had no previous mountaineering experience, he participated in the first successful winter expedition to Denali's summit, led by Gregg Blomberg. The expedition is described in \"Minus 148 Degrees: The First Winter Ascent of Mount McKinley\" (1970) by Art Davidson.\nGenet died on October 2, 1979 while descending Mount Everest, succumbing to hypothermia in the night along with his fellow climber Hannelore Schmatz. Two Sherpa guides, Sungdare Sherpa and Ang Jangbo, had stayed with them in a bivouac at 28,000 feet, but Genet did not survive until morning. The group was running low on bottled oxygen, and Schmatz died trying to get down to South Col with Sungdare later that day.\n\n\n", "id": "7719611", "categories": ["Mountaineering deaths on Mount Everest", "Deaths from hypothermia", "1979 deaths", "Denali", "Sport deaths in Nepal", "People from Matanuska-Susitna Borough, Alaska", "Deceased Everest summiters", "American summiters of Mount Everest", "Swiss emigrants to the United States", "1931 births"], "title": "Ray Genet"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719637", "text": "Fred Roos\n\nFrederick Ried \"Fred\" Roos (born May 22, 1934) is an American film producer.\n\nFred Roos was born on May 22, 1934 in Santa Monica, California, the son of Florence Mary (née Stout) and Victor Otto Roos. \n\nHe started his career in television as a casting director for \"The Andy Griffith Show\". Later, he went on to produce most of Francis Ford Coppola's films subsequent to \"The Godfather\", including \"Apocalypse Now\" and \"Youth Without Youth\". Roos won the Oscar for Best Film for producing \"The Godfather Part II\".\n\nIn 2007, he was a member of the jury at the 29th Moscow International Film Festival.\n\nAs Producer (including Co-Producer and Executive Producer)\n\nAs casting director\n", "id": "7719637", "categories": ["1934 births", "Living people", "American film producers", "People from Santa Monica, California", "Film producers from California"], "title": "Fred Roos"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719652", "text": "Bay FM 99.3\n\nBay FM 88.0 is a narrowcast FM radio station serving the Tomaree and Tilligerry Peninsulas of Port Stephens in New South Wales, Australia. The station's licence was granted on 29 April 1998 and it transmits from Gan Gan Hill in Nelson Bay. Originally broadcasting on 98.3 MHz, the station's frequency was changed to 99.3 MHz on 8 August 2003. The frequency was changed again on 26 February 2015 to 88.0 MHz.\n\n", "id": "7719652", "categories": ["Media in the Hunter Region", "Classic hits radio stations in Australia", "Radio stations in New South Wales", "Radio stations established in 1998", "Port Stephens Council"], "title": "Bay FM 99.3"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719664", "text": "Natalia Androsova\n\nPrincess Natalia Alexandrovna Romanovskaya-Iskander (; – 25 July 1999), or simply Princess Iskander, was the last of two members of the male line of the House of Romanov to remain alive in the Soviet Union following the Revolution and its aftermath. The princess was a professional vertical motorcyclist and secret agent of the Lubyanka.\nAs the daughter of Prince Romanovsky-Iskander, né , and his first wife, Olga Iosifovna Rogowska (b 1893; disappeared in the USSR; d c. 1962, daughter of Iosif Rogowski) Romanovskaya-Iskander was the granddaughter of Grand Duke Nicholas Constantinovich, the disgraced grandson of Tsar Nicholas I; thus, she was a patrilineal great-great-granddaughter of Nicholas I. Her date of birth is disputed, and has been reported as 10 February 1916, 3 February 1917, or 17 February 1910.\n\nGrand Duke Constantine Nicholaevich's son, Grand Duke Nicholas Constantinovich, was exiled to Central Asia in disgrace for stealing his mother's diamonds. Grand Duke Nicholas established a palace in Tashkent and lived in grand style where he sired a son, whom Tsar Alexander III (his great-uncle) granted the title \"Prince Iskander\" (Iskander was the Arabic form of Alexander).\n\nThis prince, Alexander Nikolaievich (15 November 1887 N.S. – 26 January 1957) who granted the name of Iskander and the rank of a Noble of the Russian Empire by Imperial Ukase 1889 and that of Hereditary Noble by Imperial Ukase 1899, also granted the title of Prince Romanovsky-Iskander with the qualification of Serene Highness by the Grand Duke Cyril Vladimirovich of Russia, who became the grandfather of Princess Natalia in absentia, in 1925, in turn, fathered the Princess Iskander. Alexander Nikolaievich only had issue by his first wife.\n\nNatalia Androsova was born in Tashkent, a member of the Constantinovichi branch of the Russian Imperial Family. She had an older brother, Prince Kirill Romanovsky-Iskander (1914–1992). Her parents, who had been married since 5 May 1912, separated and in 1924 Natalia and her brother moved with their mother to Moscow (first moved to Plyushchikha Street, later to Old Arbat), where Olga remarried to Nicholas Androsov. Natalia's stepfather adopted her and her brother so Princess Iskander was renamed Natalia Nikolaievna Androsova (). Her father remarried also, to Natalia Hanykova (b Saint Petersburg; 30/20 December 1893; d Nice 20 April 1982), dau of Maj.-Gen. Constantin Nikolaievich Hanykov and his wife Natalia Efimovna Markova, on 11 October 1930 in Paris.\n\nAfter the Russian Revolution, Natalia and her brother Kirill were the only two Romanov descendants in the male line in the USSR; the rest either left or were killed. They lived their entire lives in the USSR. She was married to Nicholas Vladimirovich Dostal (1909 - 22 April 1959) and had a daughter Eleonora Nikolaievna Dostal-Oruç (27 January 1937 - 2009). Her daughter was a socialite, philanthropist, noblewoman and an example of the modern phenomenon of the celebutante who rose to fame not because of her talent but because of her inherited wealth and controversial lifestyle in Turkey. The biographical novel \"The White Night of St. Petersburg\" (2004) was written by her second cousin Prince Michael of Greece and Denmark about her grandfather, Grand Duke Nicholas Constantinovich of Russia, and was based on Natalia's memories of him. She was a friend of Alexander Galich, Yuri Nikulin, Yuri Nagibin, and Alexander Vertinsky. Princess Natalia is also known for her brave personality. She was a motor-cyclist in motor-cyclist-circus. Besides, in the war time she was a driver in army.\n\nWhen the revolution progressed, the Iskander family decided that it was safer in Central Asia and joined the old grand duke in Tashkent; the place where Natalia's early childhood had been spent. Natalia was barely one year old when her grandfather was killed by local revolutionaries, the first grand duke to die in the Red Terror. The family never discussed the circumstances of his death, and now no one knows exactly what happened. Her father and uncle Artemi left home to join the Whites, and for a time the two Iskander princes were lost in the swirling havoc of civil war. Prince Alexander was reported missing in action. Meanwhile, the revolutionaries forced Natalia, her brother Kirill and her mother Olga to leave the grand ducal palace, but they did not persecute them.\n\nThe family were helped by the fact that their name was Iskander, not Romanov, but even more by the preoccupation of the revolutionaries with their own survival in a bitter seesaw civil war. After the war, the palace became a museum and little Natalia would visit it, aware of the fact that it had once been her home and that all its treasures-armor, sculpture, paintings-had once belonged to her family. The lavish rose garden, shielded by its high walls from Asian dust and harsh deserd winds, continued to bloom. And in the cellar, a few hunting dogs still lived. Their master was gone, but they waited for his return. Peace meant that the Bolsheviks would have the opportunity to become interested in the Iskander family, conspicuous because of the memory of the grand duke. Nicholas Constantinovich had spent his own personal funds to build canals for irrigating the crops essential for sustaining the life of the people. But Natalia's mother knew she could expect no gratitude from the Bolsheviks and decided that she would take her family to Moscow.\n\nGiving up her husband for lost, she married and changed the name of her children immediately to that of her new husband. Thus Natalia dropped Iskander for Androsova. Moscow offered new jobs and also safety in anonymity of big city life. Former tsarist officers, bureaucrats, professors and merchants hoped to find privacy and security in the bustling new capital of the Soviet regime. The new-Androsovs found a spacious apartment, but a neighbor, apparently wanting the place himself and learning who they really were, threatened to report them to the secret police.\n\nThe family fled to the Arbat District downtown near the Kremlin and to the squalor of a cramped basement apartment. Because they were neither peasants nor workers, the state gave them the status of lishentzy, people regarded as socially alien, having no right to vote and therefore unable to secure good jobs. Yet they survived. Natalia had grown up to be dazzling in appearance and dashing in manner. Tall and svelte, with finely chiseled (and also very Romanov) features, she had radiant blue eyes, long blond hair and a captivating smile. Her mother, despite changing her name, never tried to conceal the past from Natalia. All the family photographs sat on a shelf in the shabby Androsov apartment: Grand Duke Nicholas Constantinovich, his brother K.R. and Natalia's father, Prince Alexander Iskander.\n\nNatalia would proudly tell close friends of her real origins. Everyone was astonished; one of the friends said disgustedly, \"Put those pictures away; it is indecent to keep them!\" But the Androsovs were bold. Friends returning from Siberian exile, political pariahs, always knew that they could spend a few nights with the Androsovs. Natalia perhaps inherited some of her grandfather's propensity for adventure. She did not conceal that she was a Romanov.\n\nShe chose a wild career, that of a professional motorcyclist. She joined the famous sports club Dynamo and became a prominent motorcycle racer. Then the troubles came. It was 1939; Russia was experiencing Joseph Stalin's Great Terror, when millions were taken away to die, often inexplicably. Natalia was twenty-two. A young mechanic from Dynamo came courting her. When she boasted of her imperial lineage, he tried to blackmail her into sleeping with him. When she refused, he threatened to report her to the Lubyanka. Married and the mother of one, Natalia slapped him hard across the face. He was very tall and muscular, but \"I was a very strong woman,\" she said proudly. Still, she panicked and burned all of her family papers. She changed her sports club and went to another famous one, Spartak. But in several weeks the Lubyanka summoned her. The secret police people were explicit. She had only two options, they said. Either she became a secret agent or she would be shot.\n\nUnder the codename Lola, Natalia began to work for Stalin's secret police. Her Lubyanka supervisor came regularly to the Arbat where they met, not in her apartment but in the shadows of an archway outside. Years later Natalia learned that her file at the Lubyanka described her in the most flattering terms. She was young, intelligent and attractive. She had, in short, all the qualities of an excellent agent except one: She did not want the job. Her friends knew nothing of her Lubyanka affiliation. But she knew which of them would be arrested and when.\nMany people found Natalia's manner pleasingly raffish; she dressed in men's jackets and leggins. She smoked. She was proud of her ancestry, especially her grand ducal grandfather. She liked to whisper the guests that she was a Romanov, a descendant of tsars. Soon she became known as the Queen of the Arbat, a district that was taking on some of the character of New York's Greenwich Village. Visitors found hers a warm hearth in a cold and gray metropolis. She embarked on an extraordinary career as a vertical motorcyclist at Gorky Park. She drove the machine up a wall. The secret to success, she said, was \"to feel the vehicle and to look only forward, never at the wheels\". Then the war broke out.\n\nIn 1941 Nazi Germany invaded Russia. In the fall of that year, when the enemy came very close to capturing Moscow and the Soviet Government fled, Natalia stayed in the city. She was in charge of her neighborhood fire brigade, on the alert for incendiary bombs dropped by German aircraft. When these bombs hit the ground, they exploded and shot out a sea of flames. One had to catch the moment of impact and throw sand over the bomb to smother it before the explosion. Impatient Natalia would often seize the hissing bomb itself and throw it into the sand. Sometimes the white-hot bodies of bombs buried themselves deeply into the asphalt, setting even that aflame, and at night explosions and fires burst out everywhere, with people shouting and horses neighing in terror.\n\nNatalia also joined a paramilitary militia as a motorcyclist courier. When she came to her Arbat neighborhood dressed exotically in a brown velvet jacket, army boots and breeches, some passerby, unused to such extravagant dress, detained her as \"German saboteur.\" Natalia took another job, driving a truck, delivering bread to the troops at the front and clearing snow from downtown streets afterward. She discovered that she had talent for mechanical matters and she could keep her truck in good repair. As early as the summer 1942, Stalin, feeling more secure about the course of the war, decided that it was time to cheer up his people. He ordered more performances in Moscow; theater, concerts, opera and the circus.\n\nNatalia returned to her earlier career as a vertical motorcyclist. In the summer of 1953, just after Stalin's death, they gave her a new assignment, promising it would be her last. Her career as a motercyclist soared. She was at the top of her profession and toured of the USSR. She used the world's best motorcycles such as Harley Davidsons and Indian Scouts. But her performance, called \"Fearless Flight\" by people around her, was always dangerous. Sometimes she would spend a month in the hospital nursing broken bones.\n\nNatalia became friendly with the leading Moscow bohemians of the day, and they dedicated their poems and stories to her. In July 1964, eligible for a pension, she retired. But when she stopped performing, the world began to forget her and her life took on a smaller dimension. In the late 1998, in her tiny studio apartment, the last Romanov in Russia and the only Russian among Romanovs, lived with her puppy dog which she found dying in the street. The dog was suffering from pneumonia and had been severely beaten. She picked him up, remembering the mournful howls of her grandfather's dogs when the grand duke was gone. She named the dog \"Malysh\" (Baby) and Malysh has grown up a healthy ginger-colored mongrel, friendly to visitors, passionately attached to Natalia. On her crutches she took the dog for walks herself, even in wintertime when the sidewalks were frozen. Throughhout this term, her daughter and stepsons took care of her. She owned little of the great Romanov treasure, only her grandfather's crested silver spoons, a silver cup made for the coronation of Empress Elizabeth in 1742, a small decorative box, a cross and a tiny hinged icon. Whatever else of value she inherited, she had to sell in hard times. But material objects seemed not of great importance to her. In 1999 she died of old age at the age of 82.\n\n\n", "id": "7719664", "categories": ["Morganatic issue of Romanovs", "Russian princesses", "Burials at Novodevichy Cemetery", "1999 deaths", "1917 births"], "title": "Natalia Androsova"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719671", "text": "Panchakuta Basadi, Kambadahalli\n\nPanchakuta Basadi (or Panchakoota Basadi) is a temple complex located in the Kambadahalli village of the Mandya district, Karnataka state, in southwestern India. It is one of the finest examples of South Indian Dravidian architecture of the Western Ganga variety, related to the Jain faith and iconography. According to the historian K.R. Srinivasan, the temple complex, which was built by the kings of the Western Ganga Dynasty is assignable to the period 900–1000 CE. The historian I. K. Sarma however assigns an earlier date of 8th century, based on traces of early Pallava-Pandya and Chalukya-Pallava influences. Kambadahalli (whose name in the Kannada language literally translates to \"village with pillar\") which is located 18 km from the famous Jain heritage town of Shravanabelagola, on the Mandya-Shravanabelagola highway, gets its name from the \"Brahmadeva\" pillar (\"Manasthambha\") erected in front of the temple complex. From inscriptions, it is known that the temple complex has been renovated during later centuries, including the during the rule of the Hoysala Empire. The monument is protected by the Archaeological Survey of India as a \"national monument\". Srinivasan describes it as a \"landmark in South India architecture\".\n\nThe temple was built in two phases. In the first phase, three shrines were constructed (\"trikutachala\", three shrines each with a superstructure). The central shrine faces north, one shrine faces west and the other face east. The central shrine has a square superstructure (\"Shikhara\") called \"Brahmachhanda girva-shikhara\". The west and east facing shrines have superstructures called the \"Rudrachhanda griva-shikhara\" and \"Vishnuchhanda griva-shikhara\" respectively. The design of the superstructures speaks of the artistic taste of the builders. They are three-dimensional, with the first tier (\"tala\") measuring a third of the total height of the tower, and the second tier measuring one half the height of the first. Each of the three shrines have individual vestibules (or half hall or \"ardhamantapa\") which open to a large common open hall called the \"mahamantapa\" or \"navaranga\", whose ceiling is supported by four ornate central pillars. At the entrance to the shrines (\"bilpitha\") are the guardians to the \"eight directions\"(\"ashtadikpalaka\"; \"ashta\" - \"eight\", \"dik\" - \"directions\", \"palaka\" - \"keeper\") with their consorts and vehicles (\"vahana\")\n\nThe entire complex is oriented towards the impressive \"Brahmadeva\" pillar and faces north. The main central shrine houses the image of \"Adhinatha\", the first Jain \"tirthankara\" (Teaching God). The west (right) and east (left) facing shrines have the images of later day \"tirthankara\"s, Shantinatha and Neminatha respectively. The images appear to be of well-polished steatite material and could be later day replacements. According to Robert J Del Bonto who conducted research at the site, the two shrines that form the later day additions are a twin construction, are lateral (face each other), have individual vestibule and a closed \"mantapa\" (hall) and open into a common open pillared porch (open \"mantapa\"). The art critic M.H. Dhaky calls them as \"Shantinatha Basadi\" and regards them a good example of the \"terminal\" stage in Western Ganga art. The temple exhibits fine sculptures of Jain \"Yakshas\" (male benevolent spirits) and \"Yakshi\"s (their female counterparts) of the Western Ganga and Hoysala periods.\n\nAccording to the art critic and historian S. Settar, generally, \"Brahmadeva\" pillars found in front of ancient Jain temples do not house sculptures of the \"Brahma Yaksha\" or the god Brahma, rather they find their origins in the \"Manasthambha\" (\"sthambha\" \"lit\", \"pillar\") and have images of the \"Sarvanubhuti Yaksha\". The base of this pillar is square and exhibits looped garland decorations, and at the top supports a two handed seated image of east facing Siddhayika. The overall composition of the temple, according to Sarma, is one of \"clarity in structure and function\" without any emphasis on over decoration.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719671", "categories": ["Jain temples in Karnataka", "Western Ganga dynasty"], "title": "Panchakuta Basadi, Kambadahalli"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719682", "text": "Carl Friedrich Otto Westphal\n\nKarl Friedrich Otto Westphal (23 March 1833, in Berlin – 27 January 1890, in Kreuzlingen) was a German psychiatrist from Berlin. He was the son of Otto Carl Friedrich Westphal (1800–1879) and Karoline Friederike Heine and the father of Alexander Karl Otto Westphal (1863-1941). He was married to Klara, daughter of the banker Alexander Mendelssohn.\n\nAfter receiving his doctorate, he worked at the Berlin Charité, and subsequently became an assistant in the department for the mentally ill under Wilhelm Griesinger (1817–1868) and Karl Wilhelm Ideler (1795–1860). In 1869 he became an associate professor of psychiatry, as well as a clinical instructor in the department for mental and nervous diseases, In 1874 he attained the title of full professor of psychiatry.\n\nWestphal's contributions to medical science are many; in 1871 he coined the term \"agoraphobia\", when he observed that three male patients of his displayed extreme anxiety and feelings of dread when they had to enter certain public areas of the city. He is credited with providing an early diagnosis of \"pseudosclerosis\", a disease known today as hepatolenticular degeneration. He also demonstrated a relationship between tabes dorsalis (nerve degeneration in the spinal cord) and paralysis in the mentally insane.\n\nWestphal is credited with describing a deep tendon reflex anomaly in tabes dorsalis that later became known as the \"Erb–Westphal symptom\" (named with neurologist Wilhelm Heinrich Erb (1840–1921). His name is also shared with neurologist Ludwig Edinger (1855–1918) regarding the Edinger–Westphal nucleus, which is an accessory nucleus of the oculomotor nerve (cranial nerve number III; CN III). He was the first physician to provide a clinical description of narcolepsy and cataplexy (1877). French physician Jean-Baptiste-Édouard Gélineau (1828–1906), also described the two maladies, coining the term \"narcolepsie\" in 1880.\n\nA large portion of his written work dealt with diseases of the spinal cord and neuropathological issues. He trained a number of prominent neurologists and neuropathologists, including Arnold Pick, Hermann Oppenheim, Karl Fürstner, Carl Moeli and Karl Wernicke. His son, Alexander Karl Otto Westphal (1863–1941) was also a psychiatrist, and is associated with the Westphal-Piltz syndrome (neurotonic pupillary reaction). Westphal, in addition to his multiple contributions to neurology and neuroanatomy, has been credited with introducing rational and non-censorious treatment to psychiatric hospitalization in Germany.\n\nMichel Foucault credits Westphal for the birth of the modern homosexual, with his paper published in 1870 on 'contrary sexual feeling', in which he describes two people dealing with what would later come to be known as homosexuality. This appears to be one of the first medical accounts of sexuality as a psychiatric disorder.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719682", "categories": ["Mendelssohn family", "German psychiatrists", "Humboldt University of Berlin faculty", "People from Berlin", "History of psychiatry", "German neurologists", "1890 deaths", "1833 births"], "title": "Carl Friedrich Otto Westphal"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719689", "text": "Tomateros de Culiacán\n\nThe Tomateros de Culiacán () are a baseball team in the Mexican Pacific League. Based in Culiacán, the \"Tomateros\" have won eleven domestic titles and two Caribbean World Series, in and in . The team was founded in 1965 as part of the Sonora-Sinaloa League.\n\nThe 2001–2002 season was a gold year not only for the Tomateros, but also for México, as they conquered the 2002 Caribbean Series held at Caracas, Venezuela with big leaguers as Rodrigo López, Oliver Perez, Luis Ayala, José Silva and Benji Gil, as well as with Adán Amezcua, who earned Series MVP honors.\n\n", "id": "7719689", "categories": ["Baseball teams established in 1965", "1965 establishments in Mexico", "Sports teams in Sinaloa", "Mexican Pacific League teams"], "title": "Tomateros de Culiacán"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719697", "text": "Terry Diehl\n\nTerry J. Diehl (born November 9, 1949) is an American professional golfer who played on the PGA Tour from 1973–1983.\n\nDiehl was born and raised in Rochester, New York. At the age of 15 he won the international long drive competition when he hit a ball 340 yds. He attended the University of Georgia from 1968–1971 and was a member of the golf team, an All-American in 1969. \n\nDiehl had more than 20 top-10 finishes in PGA Tour events including a win at the 1974 San Antonio Texas Open; he shot a 19-under-par 269 and won by one stroke over Mike Hill. He finished solo 2nd to Lee Trevino at the same tournament in 1980. Diehl finished the 1976 IVB-Bicentennial Golf Classic tied for first in regulation; however, he lost that tournament to Tom Kite on the fifth extra hole of a playoff handing Kite his first of 19 PGA Tour wins. Diehl's best finish in a major championship was a T-7 at the 1977 U.S. Open.\n\nDiehl left the PGA Tour after the 1983 season to pursue other endeavors that included a stint in the PGA Tour's marketing department, a commentator for ESPN, a club pro, a stockbroker with Prudential Securities and a senior vice president in portfolio management at Morgan Stanley in Rochester.\n\nDiehl decided to forgo a chance to play on the Champions Tour after reaching the age of 50, when he and wife Laura decided to adopt a daughter from China named Alexandra. He also has four grown sons named Matt, John, Colin and Graham.\n\n\nPGA Tour playoff record (0–1)\n\n\"Note: Diehl never played in The Open Championship.\"<br>\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n", "id": "7719697", "categories": ["Golfers from New York (state)", "Sportspeople from Rochester, New York", "Golf writers and broadcasters", "1949 births", "PGA Tour golfers", "American male golfers", "Georgia Bulldogs men's golfers"], "title": "Terry Diehl"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719712", "text": "El Brujo\n\nLocated in the Chicama Valley, the El Brujo Archaeological Complex, just north of Trujillo, La Libertad Province, Peru, is an ancient archaeological site that was occupied from preceramic times. Considering the broad cultural sequencing, the Chicama Valley can be considered as an archaeological microcosm. The research benefits from the favourable environmental and topological conditions for material conservation.\n\nHuaca Prieta is the earliest part of the complex but he biggest constructions on the site belong to the Moche culture. In this area, there are also the remains of the later Lambayeque and Chimú.\n\nThe development of the Brujo Archaeological Complex during the Intermediate Period falls within a context of early complex societies construction. During the Moche era, monumental religious and socio-political centers usually named huacas were built. Although the architecture, the iconography and the practice of sacrifice relate the Brujo Complex to a ceremonial, ritual and funerary site, the constructions are considered as the result of labor the “caciques” controlled. The huacas of the Early Intermediate Period (200 B.C. 600 A.D.) seem to have exerted a polymorphous and centrifugal power, yet the complex is located in a difficult weather condition area. \n\nThe Brujo Complex is represented by three major huacas. The Huaca Prieta mound dates back to the preceramic times. Huaca Cortada and Huaca Cao Viejo (the largest) are stepped truncated pyramids constructed at the northern corners of the terrace during the EIP. Building archaeology unveils seven phases of construction spanning the early and middle phases of Moche era. \n\nHuaca Cao Viejo is famous for its polychrome reliefs and mural paintings, and the discovery of the Señora de Cao, whose remains are currently the earliest evidence for a female ruler in Peru. Both appeared in \"National Geographic\" magazine in July 2004 and June 2006. The site officially opened to the public in May 2006, and a museum exhibition was proposed for 2007.\n\nThe abandonment of the Huacas at the end of the Early Intermediate Period could have been linked to the political instability and upheavals of the Southern sphere of the Moche. Some archaeologists also point out the extreme climatic events at the end of the Intermediate Period that could have led to the decline of the culture. However, the informations relating to the end of the period are limited. The Lambayeque Culture arose in the Chicama Valley around 900 A.D. before being successively incorporated in the Chimu and the Inca expansive empires. Nevertheless, The Brujo Archaeological Complex remained a ceremonial and funerary area dedicated to the collective memory. \n\nA 17th-century letter found during excavations at the site may contain translations of numbers written in Quingnam or Pescadora using the decimal system, the first physical evidence for the existence of these languages (if they are not different names for the same language). Archaeologists believe that the language was influenced by Quechua, an ancient tongue still spoken by millions of people across the Andes.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719712", "categories": ["Moche culture", "Moche sites", "Cupisnique culture", "Archaeological sites in La Libertad Region"], "title": "El Brujo"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719723", "text": "Luigi Cagni\n\nLuigi \"Gigi\" Cagni (born 14 June 1950 in Brescia) is an Italian former football player, who played as a defender. He most recently served head coach of Brescia in the Serie B league in the final weeks of the 2016–17 Serie B season.\n\nCagni made his Serie A debut for Brescia in 1970, in a league match lost 4–0 to Cagliari. He played only eight Serie A matches, but gained a deep experience of Serie B, where he played 483 matches and scored 5 goals. Having played 483 matches in Serie B, he is currently the player with the most appearances in Serie B.\n\nAfter a season as youth team coach in his home team Brescia, Cagni coached Centese of Serie C2 in 1989–90, and successively signed for Piacenza of Serie C1 in 1990–91, becoming one of the main authors of Piacenza's first appearance in Serie A, in 1993. Cagni stayed at Piacenza until 1996, when he moved to Hellas Verona F.C., again in Serie A. However, Cagni was not able to maintain his team to the top division, and Verona was relegated. Since then, Cagni mostly served for Serie B teams, with the exception of Piacenza, who rehired him in 2002–03 in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid relegation.\n\nIn January 2006, after the dismissal of Mario Somma, Empoli appointed Cagni as head coach. Under his tenure, the experienced boss was able to lead the team up to tenth place, then become seventh following the Calciopoli scandal. His contract with Empoli was extended on March 2007 for another year, following impressive performances which led the team to fight for and eventually gain a spot in the next UEFA Cup, the first appearance in a continental competition for both the small Tuscan club and Cagni himself. However a poor start in the Serie A 2007–08, and a UEFA Cup elimination in the first round to FC Zurich convinced Empoli's management to sack Cagni, appointing Alberto Malesani as replacement. On 31 March 2008 he was re-called at the helm of Empoli, following the club board's decision to fire Malesani too, but he did not manage to save the club from last matchday relegation. He resigned after the verdict.\n\nOn 29 May 2008, it was announced that Cagni signed a two-year contract with Parma and was to coach the club in their first season in Serie B in 18 years. However, on 30 September 2008 he was fired by his team, Parma, and replaced by Francesco Guidolin.\n\nOn 6 October 2011 he became the new coach of Vicenza in Serie B, in place of the sacked Silvio Baldini. On 4 March 2012 he was sacked, but on 29 April 2012 he was recalled by Vicenza, but he could not save the team from relegation.\n\nHe then served as Walter Zenga's assistant at Sampdoria for a short period at the beginning of the 2015–16 season, being sacked from his position in September 2015.\n\nOn 12 March 2017, he was named new head coach of his hometown club Brescia in the Serie B league, taking over from outgoing manager Cristian Brocchi. Under his tenure, he managed to save Brescia from relegation, and left by the end of the season to make room for new head coach Roberto Boscaglia.\n", "id": "7719723", "categories": ["Genoa C.F.C. managers", "U.C. Sampdoria managers", "Serie A managers", "Italian football managers", "1950 births", "Hellas Verona F.C. managers", "Empoli F.C. managers", "Association football defenders", "Sportspeople from Brescia", "Living people", "Serie A players", "Piacenza Calcio 1919 managers", "S.S. Sambenedettese Calcio players", "Parma Calcio 1913 managers", "Italian footballers", "L.R. Vicenza Virtus managers"], "title": "Luigi Cagni"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719730", "text": "Sedona Red Rock News\n\nThe paper is distributed twice a week, Tuesday afternoon or evening for the Wednesday edition, and Thursday afternoon or evening for the Friday edition. The cost is seventy-five cents for a single issue, or $39 a year for delivery.\n\n", "id": "7719730", "categories": ["Newspapers published in Arizona", "Media in Coconino County, Arizona", "Publications established in 1963", "1963 establishments in Arizona", "Media in Yavapai County, Arizona"], "title": "Sedona Red Rock News"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719756", "text": "The Pinhoe Egg\n\nThe Pinhoe Egg is a children's fantasy novel by British author Diana Wynne Jones published by HarperCollins Children's Books in 2006. It was the last published of the seven (1977 to 2006).\n\nIt revisits Chrestomanci Castle and the character of Cat Chant from her first Chrestomanci book, but also introduces the character of Marianne Pinhoe, who lives in the village near the castle and whose family practices a rather different sort of magic from any that Chrestomanci or his charges have encountered.\n\nThe Chrestomanci books are collectively named for a powerful enchanter and British government official in a world parallel to ours, who supervises the use of magic —or the Chrestomanci, an office that requires a powerful enchanter and is responsible for supervising. \"The Pinhoe Egg\" is set in our time, during the tenure of Christopher Chant, who is Chrestomanci in five of the seven books and is often called Chrestomanci as a personal name.\n\nMarianne Pinhoe's family tries to keep their magic a secret. They don't want the \"Big Man\", or Chrestomanci, interfering, as he tends to do when people misuse magic. And the Pinhoes certainly are guilty of that. Gammer, the head of the Pinhoe clan, has ostensibly gone mad, but Marianne doesn't believe that she's completely 'round the twist. She's sure that Gammer's the one sending plagues to the Farleighs, a related clan that also wishes to stay out of the sights of the \"Big Man\". Until recently, the Farleighs and the Pinhoes had been working together, but it seems that Gammer has started a war, and it'll be hard to keep their operations under wraps for long.\n\nMeanwhile, up at the Castle, Cat acquires a horse. He also meets the man who was bootboy at the Castle when the current Chrestomanci was a lad, Jason, and helps him and his new wife choose a house. They finally settle on Woods House, Gammer's old place, and Marianne, while showing Cat around, gives him an old egg from the attic, an egg with strong \"Don't Notice\" spells placed on it. An egg that is sure to arouse the interest of the \"Big Man\" up at the castle – something the rest of the Pinhoe clan, and Gammer in particular, doesn't want at all.\n\nMarianne Pinhoe: Marianne is the main protagonist of the book. She is set to be the next Gammer of the Pinhoe clan, but that isn't what she wants at all. She has very strong magic, but, like many of Jones' characters, doesn't know it. She is an enchantress, although her mother trains her up to be a witch. She seems to have a lot of \"dwimmer,\" which is a sort of magic.\n\nJoe Pinhoe: Marianne's brother is sent to work as a bootboy (and spy) up at Chrestomanci Castle. He isn't really interested in the work, however, and mostly idles about. He is a disappointment to the family, but he'd fixed it that way on purpose. He likes to fix up contraptions using magic and machinery, and he and Roger try to turn it into a lucrative business scheme.\n\nEric \"Cat\" Chant: In the first Chrestomanci book, Cat is a very lonely character, clinging to his older sister and, later, to Janet, and distrusting the adults of the Castle. In this book, we see that he has not only grown to like and trust the people of the Castle, but he forms many new friendships, both with characters older than himself (Jason the former bootboy and his wife, Irene), and characters of his own age (Marianne). He acquires a horse (Syracuse) whom he has an intimate friendship with, and a griffin (Klartch), although Klartch had been a mistake, hatched from an egg Marianne had given him.\n\nRoger Chant: Roger is the son of Chrestomanci (Christopher Chant) and Millie (the Living Asheth from \"The Lives of Christopher Chant\"). He, like his sister, is quite fat. Instead of wishing for a horse, he acquired a bicycle. He makes quite good friends with Joe Pinhoe, and together create a flying machine, which they work on in secret.\n\nJulia Chant: Julia is the daughter of Chrestomanci and Millie. She caught the horse fever from Janet, and tried to ride Syracuse, but found she couldn't deal with his temperament, so he became Cat's horse. She used to have a crush on Jason, and is upset that when she learns that he is married.\n\nJanet Chant: Janet is the other world equivalent of Cat's sister, Gwendolen. She used to live in the normal world (suspected to be our world) and got to Cat's world by the works of Gwendolen. Although she can get fiery sometimes, she is usually kind and sympathetic. Janet discovers she is one of those people afraid of horses. She, like Julia, had been infatuated with Jason, but was much more devastated than Julia when he showed up married, seeing as she had been planning to marry him in the future.\n\nIrene: Irene is the woman who married Jason. She is described as having an \"Egyptian profile, with dark hair.\" She, by her faithful gardener and Marianne, is called \"Princess Irene.\" She is the kind of woman that most people end up liking, even Janet and Julia. She is a Pinhoe, and ends up buying Gammer's old house. It is strongly implied that she will become the next Gammer, seeing as she has a lot of dwimmer.\n\nChrestomanci: Also known as Christopher Chant. Referred to as \"The Big Man\" by the Pinhoes. 'Chrestomanci' is the title of the post held by a nine-lived enchanter who keeps order in the magical realms. Father of Roger and Julia Chant, and guardian of Janet Chant. Cat is apprenticed to him to become the next Chrestomanci.\n\nMillie: Chrestomanci's wife, a kind, loving woman and a powerful enchantress.\n\n\"The Pinhoe Egg\" was one of four runners up for Mythopoeic Fantasy Award, children's section, the sixth time Jones was a finalist for that annual literary award by the Mythopoeic Society.\n\n\"Locus\" subscribers voted it number six for the 2007 Locus Award, best young adult book, voted by \"Locus\" subscribers. In 2009 it was a finalist for the Pacific Northwest Library Association Young Reader's Choice Awards in the intermediate division.\n\n\n (ISFDB). Retrieved 2012-04-28. • Select a title to see its linked publication history and general information. Select a particular edition (title) for more data at that level, such as a front cover image or linked contents.\n", "id": "7719756", "categories": ["British children's novels", "HarperCollins books", "Chrestomanci books", "British fantasy novels", "2006 fantasy novels", "2006 British novels", "Children's fantasy novels"], "title": "The Pinhoe Egg"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719759", "text": "Bob Conners\n\nRobert Foster Charles Conners (December 12, 1933November 23, 2014), known professionally as Bob Conners, was an American radio personality on Columbus, Ohio's AM radio station 610 WTVN. On his retirement in 2011, he had been on the air in Columbus for over forty years, 33 of them as WTVN morning show host. In total, his broadcasting career lasted more than 60 years.\n\nConners was born in Clearfield, Pennsylvania on December 12, 1933 to Robert Charles and Zona (née Foster) Conners. He graduated from St. Marys Central Catholic High School in St. Marys, Pennsylvania in 1952.\n\nConners began his broadcasting work while in high school at WKBI in St. Marys and continued at WJET in Erie, Pennsylvania. He served in the United States Army from 1956 to 1958, then resumed broadcasting roles at KSON and KDEO in San Diego, California, and WEEP in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He began his career at WTVN in 1964 after moving to Columbus from Pittsburgh. After a three-year interlude as the afternoon presenter at WBNS-AM in Columbus from 1973 to 1976, he returned to WTVN where he was named morning show host in 1978.\n\nPrior to Conners' 2011 retirement, \"Bob Conners in the Morning\" aired weekday mornings from 5:35 a.m. to 9 a.m. His show had been a mainstay of Columbus radio since 1979. The show interspersed news, weather, and traffic reports between segments discussing issues of varied interest, as well as interviews with authors and local personalities.\n\nOn \"BC's Saturday Morning Open Phones\", callers could speak about any topic, whether a simple announcement of a charity event or a minutes-long political rant. There were several regular callers who bantered with Conners over politics or the latest Ohio State University football game. \"BC's Saturday Morning Open Phones\" aired Saturdays on WTVN from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.\n\nDuring the last several years of his WTVN career, Conners performed his show during the winter months remotely from a studio installed in his second home in Marco Island, Florida.\n\nAccording to his obituary, Conners had a lifelong interest in aviation and was an instrument-rated pilot. He earned his bachelor's degree in Aviation and Communications from The Ohio State University in 1986. He was a member of the Commemorative Air Force and served as announcer for many air shows at Rickenbacker Air National Guard Base near Columbus.\n\nOn October 24, 2011, Conners announced that he would be retiring and his last official day on-air would be November 30, 2011.\n\nHis retirement was marked by a statement on the floor of the US Congress by Representative Pat Tiberi of Ohio's 12th Congressional District. At the time he indicated he planned to continue to live with his family in the Eastmoor neighborhood of Columbus most of the year.\n\nOn November 24, 2014, the station announced Conners' death of mantle cell lymphoma at his winter home in Marco Island the previous day at the age of 80. He was survived by his wife of 37 years, Linda, and four children, 13 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.\n\n", "id": "7719759", "categories": ["Deaths from cancer in Florida", "People from Columbus, Ohio", "American radio personalities", "People from Clearfield County, Pennsylvania", "Ohio State University alumni", "1933 births", "Deaths from lymphoma", "2014 deaths"], "title": "Bob Conners"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719762", "text": "Larry Winget\n\nLarry Winget (born 1952) is a professional motivational speaker, bestselling author, television personality and social commentator. Winget markets himself as \"the trademarked 'Pitbull of Personal Development' and 'World's Only Irritational Speaker'\".\n\nWinget was raised in Muskogee, Oklahoma. Both his parents were in retail. He graduated from Central High School in Muskogee, Oklahoma and from Northeastern Oklahoma State University in Tahlequah, Oklahoma. He is married to Rose Mary Winget and has two sons, Tyler and Patrick. He lives in Scottsdale, Arizona.\n\nWinget is the author of six \"New York Times\"/\"Wall Street Journal\" bestsellers and hosted the television series \"Big Spender\" on A&E for two seasons. He has appeared on several television shows including \"Tool Academy\", \"Crowd Rules\" and \"Dr. Phil\". He has appeared in two PBS specials, two CNBC specials of \"The Millionaire Inside\" and is a regular on many national news shows on CNBC, MSNBC, FOX Business Network and FOX News. \nThe \"Arizona Republic\" has twice named Larry Winget \"Arizona's Best Author\" and \"Best Television Celebrity\". Winget also stars in his own online television show, \"Grow A Pair TV\" on the Whatever It Takes network\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719762", "categories": ["American motivational speakers", "American motivational writers", "American business writers", "American self-help writers", "Living people", "1952 births"], "title": "Larry Winget"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719765", "text": "Landsmanshaft\n\nA landsmanshaft (also landsmanschaft; plural: landsmanshaftn) is a mutual aid society, benefit society, or hometown society of Jewish immigrants from the same European town or region.\n\nThe Landsmanshaft organizations aided immigrants' transitions from Europe to America by providing social structure and support to those who arrived in the United States without the family networks and practical skills that had sustained them in Europe. Toward the end of the 19th and in the beginning of the 20th centuries, they provided immigrants help in learning English, finding a place to live and work, locating family and friends, and an introduction to participating in a democracy, through their own meetings and procedures such as voting on officers, holding debates on community issues, and paying dues to support the society. Through the first half of the 20th century, meetings were often conducted and minutes recorded in Yiddish, which was the language that all members could understand. As Jewish immigration declined, most landsmanshaft functions faded into the background, but the organizations nevertheless continued as a way of maintaining ties to life in Europe as well as providing a form of life insurance, disability and unemployment insurance, and subsidized burial.\n\nMembers paid dues on a regular basis, and if they lost their jobs, became too sick to work, or died, the society paid the member or their family a benefit to keep them afloat during that time. When the funds were not needed to support members, landsmanshaftn frequently invested the money in funds that supported the Jewish community in others ways, such as Israel Bonds. Most landsmanshaftn were based in New York City, where the majority of Jews settled and conditions were conducive to sustaining these types of organizations, though they sometimes relocated as the membership migrated to the suburbs.\n\nThere were different types of landsmanshaftn, including Jewish burial societies known as \"chevra kadisha\", societies associated with a particular synagogue or social movement, and \"ladies auxiliary\" societies for women. (Landsmanshaftn frequently admitted only men as members, with the understanding that their wives and children were covered by their membership and received equivalent benefits, or had a ladies' auxiliary group for women). The Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring is a mutual aid society with more than 200 branches, but because it is not based on geography or members' hometowns, is not strictly a landsmanshaft even though it largely functions as one.\n\nIn 1938, a federal Works Progress Administration project identified 2,468 landsmanshaftn in New York City, where the overwhelming number in the United States were located. The number of landsmanshaftn began to decline in the 1950s and 1960s as their members died and were not replaced by the next generation of their members' children. The vast majority became defunct, though some societies continue to meet regularly into the 21st century, and operate scores of burial plots in cemeteries in the New York metropolitan area.\n\nOver time, landsmanshaftn lost members as they aged and died, and many became defunct. The next generation felt less need of a connection to Europe, relied on the national programs of the New Deal if they needed financial support during difficult times, and because they were not immigrants, didn't need landsmanshaftn to socialize or meet others. When officers were not replaced, it sometimes resulted in difficulties for the relatives of members who died, because the officers were required to issue burial permits to the cemeteries in which their plots were located. The state of New York, particularly the Department of Insurance, stepped in to take over these functions for some groups. Many records of defunct landsmanshaftn eventually made their way from the New York State Department of Insurance to the archives of YIVO.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719765", "categories": ["Jewish community organizations", "Mutual organizations", "Jewish clubs and societies"], "title": "Landsmanshaft"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719770", "text": "Maria Arredondo (album)\n\nMaria Arredondo is the first album by Norwegian singer Maria Arredondo, released in Norway on March 17, 2003, with a second edition released on June 30, 2003. The album was the most successful album by Arredondo either in critics or sales. It has 12 songs with the second edition and 5 singles were released. One of the singles, \"In Love With An Angel\", a duet with Christian Ingebrigtsen, was nominated for the 2003 Norwegian Grammy Awards as 'Song Of The Year'.\n\nAfter two years recording the songs, Arredondo signed with Universal Music Norway. The album entered the Norwegian Top 40 and Norwegian Topp 30 Norsk at #2 and spent 23 weeks on the charts. It was recorded in Sweden and Norway, and was produced by several well-known Scandinavian producers such as Jonas von Der Burg, Espen Lind, Bluefish, Jonny Sjo, Harry Sommerdahl and Bjørn Erik Pedersen. Several successful songwriters also contributed, including Christian Ingebrigtsen, Jonas von Der Burg, Silje Nergaard, Espen Lind and Harry Sommerdahl. The first single released was \"Can Let Go\". The second single, \"Just A Little Heartache\" was very successful in the radio charts. \"In Love With An Angel\" was the third single and became the first and only #1 single for Arredondo.\n\nThe album was re-released with a new song, \"Hardly Hurts At All\", which was released as a single. The last single from the album was \"A Thousand Nights\". The album went platinum and sold more than 70,000 copies.\n", "id": "7719770", "categories": ["2003 debut albums", "Maria Arredondo albums"], "title": "Maria Arredondo (album)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719773", "text": "David McClain\n\nDavid McClain may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7719773", "categories": [], "title": "David McClain"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719777", "text": "Friedrich Wilhelm von Haugwitz\n\nFriedrich Wilhelm Graf von Haugwitz (), ; 11 December 1702, Saxony – 30 August 1765, Deutsch Knönitz (), Habsburg Moravia) was Supreme Chancellor of the United Court Chancery and the head of \"Directorium in publicis et cameralibus\" under Maria Theresa of Austria. He also served as one of the key advisors in instituting Maria Theresa's reforms. Haugwitz attempted to bring both centralization and economic reform to the Habsburg lands.\n\nIn this position, Haugwitz presided over the hereditary lands of the Habsburg Monarchy. After 1760, the chancery also dealt in the affairs of Bohemia. The \"Directorium in publicis et cameralibus\" became a centralized agency established with the advisement of Haugwitz to deal with matters such as “international administration and taxation, public safety, social welfare, education, church matters, mining and commerce”. It is clear from Maria Theresa’s testament that Haugwitz was one of her most valued advisors.\n“He was truly sent to me by Providence, for to break the deadlock I needed such a man, honorable, disinterested, without predispositions, and with neither ambition nor hangers-on, who supported what was good because he saw it to be good…”\n\nHaugwitz’ father was a general in the service of Saxony. As a young man’ Haugwitz went to Rome and then entered the civil service in Silesia. This job came to an end when Frederick II invaded Silesia and Haugwitz escaped to Vienna. Maria Theresa sent him to the remaining part of Silesia under her rule to get the finances in order. Haugwitz, as a student of the Austrian cameralist, Wilhelm von Schröder, learned hostility towards the wealthy estates. Haugwitz was also an admirer of the reforms and new administration in the Prussian province of Silesia. He intended to change economic and administrative institutions through compartmentalization of government functions, education, centralization of the economy and provision of economic information to the monarchy.\n\nIn terms of compartmentalization, Haugwitz instituted a separation of judicial matters from political and fiscal matters by instituting a new High Court (\"Oberste Justizstelle\"). Regional courts functioned directly beneath the Empress with each departmental chief supervising his own affairs.\n\nHaugwitz also focused on another important initiative to bring modern economic thought to students. Maria Theresa had established the \"Theresianum\" to train noble children for civil service. Through this institution, Haugwitz planned to bring about economic modernization. To catalyze this modernization and establish Vienna as a place of economic discourse, Haugwitz brought Johann Heinrich Gottlob Justi to Vienna, first to teach German as the language of administration and later to train students according to both German Kameralism and modern economic theories and practices. As both a former soldier in Prussia and a Protestant, Justi was not well liked in Vienna. Because of this mistrust, Justi lacked the access to pertinent economic data required to execute his theories. Society was also not prepared for modern economic thought because of the traditionally Jesuit nature of scholarship and the division of the Habsburg economy into various regional and local economies.\n\nIn 1746, under the direction of Haugwitz, in an attempt to bring about economic centralization, the \"Directorium\" was established as a central agency to supervise the lands in the monarchy and make recommendations about economic improvements. In 1749, the government established \"Representationen und Cammern\" as local offices of the \"Directorium\" chiefly as mechanisms for supervising tax policy.\n\nBecause of this economic centralization, Haugwitz provided Emperor Joseph II with an unprecedented amount of information about the economies of the states over which he would reign. As part of Joseph II’s education, he received an extensive overview of the economic makeup of each state. Such a report was unprecedented because it would traditionally have been viewed as an intrusion in the affairs normally reserved to the estates. All of these reforms helped to bring about the eventual peak of mercantilism in the 1760s.\n\nMilitary reforms complimented Haugwitz’s economic initiatives. Due to his belief in the need for “immediate supremacy of the sovereign over the army, and the maintenance of an adequate body of troops even in time of peace,” Haugwitz contributed to military reform in both funding and the development of a standing army.\n\nTo protect the monarchy, Haugwitz recommended a standing army of 108,000 supported by contributions by the estates of 14 million gulden. To avoid the previous issues in estates' withholding of contributions, or the tedious process of frequent appeals to the estates, Haugwitz instituted the Ten Years’ Recess. Under this program, despite the resistance of the estates, the estates would guarantee payment for ten years. This period abolished the previous fluctuations in finances. Previously, when taxes were levied from the estates, the estates disagreed amongst themselves over the amount levied, divided the sum among the various estates, collected taxes from the peasantry, deducted from these taxes and then distributed the remainder to the monarchy. In this reform, \"Representationen und Cammern\" collected the taxes in order that the greatest portion of the levy would be distributed to the monarchy.\n\nIn addition to these military finance reforms, Haugwitz instituted reforms within the military. A policy quite close to conscription was established. Uniform dress was required of soldiers in order to foster national spirit. Haugwitz advocated the usage of Prussian fighting tactics. A training school was founded to train officers in these tactics.\n\nDespite the large-scale nature and depth of Haugwitz’s reforms, their efficacy was not as great as he had intended. Haugwitz’s attempt to transform the monarchy from a “feudal aristocracy” to a “well-organised-despotism” was incomplete. (Franck p. 190) The superior court system that established local judges, while initially an attempt at both centralization and organization brought about the opposite due to the tremendous autonomy of each departmental chief. Furthermore, the reforms had limited scope, because they were not aimed at nor did they have any effect on Hungary, Transylvania, Austria, the Netherlands, or Lombardy.\n\nThe beginning of the Seven Years’ War in 1757 thwarted the development of many of the reforms. In false defense of his failing policies, Haugwitz argued that the reforms “were only for peacetime”. Eventually, Haugwitz’s \"Directorium\" was stripped of its military and financial functions and renamed the Bohemian and Austrian Court Chancellery. Most power now became centered in the Council of State headed by Wenzel Anton Graf Kaunitz. Kaunitz, a historic foe of Haugwitz, replaced him in instituting policies. However, Haugwitz’s policies would have an effect throughout the reign of Maria Theresa and later in the reign of Joseph II.\n\nEarly in his career the composer Joseph Haydn was briefly in Count Haugwitz's employ, playing the organ in the Bohemian Chancellery chapel at the Judenplatz.\n\nIn the summer of 1765, he moved to one of his castles in Miroslavské Knínice, where, due to dysentery, his health worsened. He died on 30 August 1765. His body was taken to Náměšť nad Oslavou, where he was buried on 1 September 1765 in the crypt of the Church of St. John the Baptist. Later, his remains, along with those of his wife, were moved, on 19 February 1768, to a crypt in the Capuchin church near the castle in Náměšť.\n", "id": "7719777", "categories": ["18th-century Austrian people", "Moravian-German people", "Moravian nobility", "Saxon nobility", "1702 births", "Austrian politicians", "Haugwitz family", "Counts of Austria", "18th-century German people", "1765 deaths"], "title": "Friedrich Wilhelm von Haugwitz"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719782", "text": "François de Lorraine\n\nFrancois de Lorraine (1506–1525) was the Lord of Lambesc, and a commander in the French army under Francis I of France. He was son of René II, Duke of Lorraine and Philippa of Guelders. He commanded the Black Band of renegade Landsknechts at the Battle of Pavia, and in the bitter combat that ensued between the Black Band and Frundsberg's Imperial Landsknechts, Lorraine was killed.\n\n", "id": "7719782", "categories": ["Military leaders of the Italian Wars", "1506 births", "French military personnel killed in action", "1525 deaths", "16th-century French people"], "title": "François de Lorraine"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719802", "text": "Lauren Alloy\n\nLauren B. Alloy is a professor of psychology at Temple University and is recognized in the area of mood disorders. Her research focuses on cognitive, interpersonal, and biopsychosocial processes in the onset and maintenance of depression and bipolar disorder. In the late 1970s, Alloy and her longtime collaborator Lyn Yvonne Abramson demonstrated that depressed individuals held a more accurate view than their non-depressed counterparts in a test which measured illusion of control. This finding held true even when the depression was manipulated experimentally (see also depressive realism).\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719802", "categories": ["American women psychologists", "Social psychologists", "Living people", "Bipolar disorder researchers", "American psychologists", "Clinical psychologists"], "title": "Lauren Alloy"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719813", "text": "Kincheloe, Michigan\n\nKincheloe is an unincorporated community in Chippewa County on the Upper Peninsula of the U.S. state of Michigan, named after the former Kincheloe Air Force Base, that was in turn named after noted pilot Iven Kincheloe.\n\nKincheloe is at the eastern end of Kinross Charter Township, just east of Interstate 75 (I-75) and about southwest of Sault Ste. Marie and north of St. Ignace. It is on the area formerly occupied by the Kincheloe Air Force Base, which covered .\n\nDespite the loss of approximately 10,000 personnel living in the area after the base closure in 1977, the town has managed to survive the years since closing, largely due to the development of several prisons in the area, some growth in light industry and an airport that continues to use some of the runways built for the Air Force Base.\n\nChippewa County International Airport, Kinross Correctional Facility, Chippewa Correctional Facility, Kinross Manufacturing, American Kinross, Inc. are now located on the base's former property and adjacent land. In all, the local tax base had doubled, and the civilian payroll created by the new ventures had reached $110 million.\n\nThe town is also home to The Oaks at Kincheloe, formerly The Kincheloe Memorial Golf Course, an 18 hole, par 72, course built as a nine-hole course by the base in 1951 and expanded in 1987.\n\n\n", "id": "7719813", "categories": ["Unincorporated communities in Chippewa County, Michigan"], "title": "Kincheloe, Michigan"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719836", "text": "USS Heron (MHC-52)\n\nUSS \"Heron\" (MHC-52) is the second ship of .\n\n\"Heron\" was transferred to the Hellenic Navy under a foreign military sales agreement on 16 March 2007. \"Heron\" was renamed \"Kalipso\".\n\n", "id": "7719836", "categories": ["Osprey-class coastal minehunters of the Hellenic Navy", "Ships transferred from the United States Navy to the Hellenic Navy", "Osprey-class coastal minehunters", "Active mine warfare vessels of Greece", "Ships built in Savannah, Georgia", "1992 ships"], "title": "USS Heron (MHC-52)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719855", "text": "USS Pelican (MHC-53)\n\nUSS \"Pelican\" (MHC-53) was the third and the third ship in the Navy to bear the name of the bird. From 1 January 1997 on, \"Pelican\" was part of the Naval Reserve Force. In that role the ship was used as training platform for naval reservists. Both decommissioned and stricken from the Navy List on 16 March 2007, \"Pelican\" was transferred to the Hellenic Navy the same day. There she was recommissioned as Evniki.\n\n\n", "id": "7719855", "categories": ["Osprey-class coastal minehunters of the Hellenic Navy", "Ships built in Georgia (U.S. state)", "Ships transferred from the United States Navy to the Hellenic Navy", "Osprey-class coastal minehunters", "1993 ships", "Active mine warfare vessels of Greece"], "title": "USS Pelican (MHC-53)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719860", "text": "You Never Know Who Your Friends Are\n\nYou Never Know Who Your Friends Are is the second solo album by American multi-instrumentalist Al Kooper, issued in 1969 on Columbia Records.\n\nKooper wasted no time recording this album, coming just seven months after his debut release. It is a continuation of sorts of his debut; the album contains another eclectic mix of rock, rhythm and blues, jazz, pop, and blues, though without the psychedelics that had somewhat permeated through \"I Stand Alone\". Utilizing a large group of musicians under the direction of Charlie Calello, known collectively as \"The Al Kooper Big Band\", Kooper also strayed away from the heavy string orchestrations of his debut.\n\nRelying on more original compositions, with nine of twelve tracks by Kooper, and the remaining three by Harry Nilsson and Motown Records staff songwriters, the album further helped to cement Kooper's reputation. The album reached #125 on the \"Billboard\" 200 on October 25, 1969, and was on the charts for six weeks.\n\nAll tracks composed by Al Kooper; except where indicated\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719860", "categories": ["1969 albums", "Al Kooper albums", "Columbia Records albums", "Albums arranged by Charles Calello"], "title": "You Never Know Who Your Friends Are"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719872", "text": "Extended sympathy\n\nExtended sympathy in welfare economics refers to interpersonal value judgments of the form that social state \"x\" for person \"A\" is ranked better than, worse than, or as good as social state \"y\" for person \"B\" (Arrow, 1963, pp. 114-15). (For example: it would, perhaps, be preferable to lower a wealthy person's income in order to increase a poorer person's income by the same amount.) Here any characteristics that define each person (skills, aptitudes, etc.) are distinguished from the rest of the social state and put on a par with conventional measures of wealth insofar as they affect an extended sympathy judgment.\n\nIn his seminal work on social choice theory, Kenneth Arrow (1963) mentions the ancient lineage of extended sympathy in ethical writings and its basic, if informal, character in many welfare judgments. Arrow's book itself (p. 9) uses individual preference orderings rather than real-valued measures of preferences. This excludes \"interpersonal comparisons of welfare\" in a precise sense (invariance of social choices to linear cardinalizations of individual preference orderings). Extended-sympathy interpersonal comparisons of welfare relax that constraint (Arrow, 1983, pp. 151–2). Such comparisons expand the informational base of welfare-theoretical decisions, as Amartya Sen (1982) has emphasized. Still, variants of Arrow's dictatorial result persist in reformulation (Suzumura, 1997, p. 221).\n\n", "id": "7719872", "categories": ["Social choice theory"], "title": "Extended sympathy"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719874", "text": "USS Robin (MHC-54)\n\nUSS \"Robin\" (MHC-54) was an in the United States Navy and is the fourth ship named for the robin. \"Robin\"s keel was laid on 2 June 1992 and she was commissioned on 11 May 1996, at Naval Station Ingleside, Ingleside, Texas. Struck from the Navy list 15 June 2006, sold by U.S. General Services Administration for scrap, 8 May 2014.\n", "id": "7719874", "categories": ["1993 ships", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Osprey-class coastal minehunters"], "title": "USS Robin (MHC-54)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719881", "text": "USS Oriole (MHC-55)\n\nUSS \"Oriole\" (MHC-55) was an of the United States Navy. She was built by Intermarine USA and launched in 1993 then commissioned in 1995. After only eleven years of service she was decommissioned in 2006 and sold to Taiwan. She now operates as ROCS \"Yung Jin\" (MHC 1310).\n", "id": "7719881", "categories": ["Ships transferred from the United States Navy to the Republic of China Navy", "1993 ships", "Osprey-class coastal minehunters"], "title": "USS Oriole (MHC-55)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719889", "text": "USS Kingfisher (MHC-56)\n\nUSS \"Kingfisher\" (MHC-56) was the sixth ship of \"Osprey\"-class coastal mine hunters. She is named after the kingfisher.\n\n\"Kingfisher\" was decommissioned in a joint ceremony along with three other Coastal Mine Hunters. She was the last Coastal Mine Hunter (MHC) in active service with the US Navy. She was transferred to a Naval Inactive Ships Storage Facility in Texas to await transfer under Foreign Military Sales. In September 2010, the US Senate had approved the sale of the ship to India along with MHC-57 \"Cormorant\". This sale never happened. Stricken from the Navy list 01 December 2007, sold by U.S. General Services Administration for scrap, 08 May 2014.\n\n", "id": "7719889", "categories": ["Ships built in Mississippi", "1994 ships", "Osprey-class coastal minehunters"], "title": "USS Kingfisher (MHC-56)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719895", "text": "USS Cormorant (MHC-57)\n\nUSS Cormorant (MHC-57) is the seventh ship of Osprey class coastal mine hunters.\n\nCurrent Status\nShe was transferred to a Naval Inactive Ships Storage Facility in Texas to await transfer under Foreign Military Sales. In September 2010, the US Senate had approved the sale of the ship to India along with MCH-56 \"Kingfisher\". This sale never happened. Stricken from the Navy list 1 December 2007, sold by U.S. General Services Administration for scrap, 8 May 2014.\n", "id": "7719895", "categories": ["Ships built in Mississippi", "1995 ships", "Osprey-class coastal minehunters"], "title": "USS Cormorant (MHC-57)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719897", "text": "Filmfare Award for Best Villain – Telugu\n\nThe Telugu Filmfare Best Villain Award is given by the \"Filmfare\" magazine as part of its annual Filmfare Awards for Telugu films.\n\nThe award was introduced and first given at the 50th South Filmfare Awards in 2003, with Shafi being the first recipient. This category has been retired. Here is a list of the award winners and the films for which they won.\n\n", "id": "7719897", "categories": [], "title": "Filmfare Award for Best Villain – Telugu"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719901", "text": "USS Black Hawk (MHC-58)\n\nUSS \"Black Hawk\" (MHC-58) was the eighth ship of \"Osprey\"-class coastal mine hunters.\n\nShe was commissioned 11 May 1996 and decommissioned 1 December 2007. Stricken from the Navy list 1 December 2007, sold by U.S. General Services Administration for scrap, 8 May 2014.\n\n\"Black Hawk\" was of the MHC 51 class of ships, which are the world's largest glass reinforced plastic (GRP) ships and the first U.S. Navy ships designed solely for mine hunting; the technique of locating mines with sonar and neutralizing them with a remotely controlled underwater vehicle or divers.\n\nThe ship's mission was to clear harbor, coastal, and ocean waters of acoustic, magnetic and pressure/contact type mines utilizing reconnaissance, classification and neutralization tactics. Exceptionally low magnetic and acoustic signatures protect the ship against detonations during mine hunting operations.\n\n\"Black Hawk\" (MHC-58) was the eighth ship in the U.S. MHC 51 (Osprey) Class Coastal Minehunter Program and the third U.S. Navy ship to bear that name. \"Black Hawk\"'s keel was laid on September 3, 1992 and her christening and launching was on August 27, 1994 at Intermarine USA Corporation, Savannah, Georgia.\n\nUSS \"Black Hawk\" (MHC-58) was commissioned in ceremonies held on May 11, 1996, at Pier Two at the Naval Education Training Center, Newport, R.I.\n\nThe ship's shield is dark blue and gold which are the colors traditionally used by the Navy to reflect the sea and excellence. Black is indicative of strength and stability. Blue denotes loyalty and devotion. White is emblematic of integrity and is symbolic of sea foam and breakers. The two mines recall the two previous ships of the same name and underscore the \"Black Hawk\"'s mine hunting capabilities. The stylized paddlewheel is reminiscent of the first \"Black Hawk\" (a sidewheel steamer which served as flagship for Rear Admiral D.D. Porter and S.P. Lee, successive commander of the Mississippi Squadron). The paddle wheel further simulates a maritime compass suggesting leadership, guidance and alludes to navigation and the far reaching scope and mission of the past and present USS \"Black Hawk\". The annulets incorporated into the paddle wheel suggest continual efforts. The paddle wheel, together with the two mines, symbolize the three ships bearing the name Black Hawk.\n\nOn the ship's crest, the waves of the sea denote the coastal waters, harbors, waterways and Navy theater of operations. The stylized black hawk reflects the continuous aggressiveness of the Black Hawk and its crew in carrying out their mission of minehunting, fueling, repairing and keeping combatant vessels in fighting trim. The name Black Hawk was derived from Indian Chief Black Hawk mentioned in history as the leader of the Sac & Fox tribes during the Black Hawk War. The star on the hawk's wing is commemorative of the battle star received by the second \"Black Hawk\" for her service in World War II.\n\nTwo previous U.S. Navy ships have borne the name \"Black Hawk\". The first \"Black Hawk\" was a side-wheeler river steamer that served as flagship of the Mississippi Squadron from December 1862 through May 1864. On 22 April 1865, she burned and sank. Her wreck was raised and sold in April 1867.\n\nThe second \"Black Hawk\" was commissioned 16 May 1918, and assigned as tender and flagship to the Mine Force in Inverness, Scotland from June 1918 until the end of World War I, when her base was shifted to the North Sea. She was designated a destroyer tender in November 1920 and she tended destroyer squadrons until 1942. She was decommissioned 15 August 1946. \"Black Hawk\" received one battle star for her service in World War II.\n", "id": "7719901", "categories": ["1994 ships", "Ships built in Louisiana"], "title": "USS Black Hawk (MHC-58)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719905", "text": "USS Falcon (MHC-59)\n\nUSS \"Falcon\" (MHC-59) is the ninth ship of \"Osprey\"-class coastal minehunters. She is named after the falcon.\n", "id": "7719905", "categories": ["1995 ships", "Ships transferred from the United States Navy to the Republic of China Navy", "Osprey-class coastal minehunters", "Ships built in Georgia (U.S. state)"], "title": "USS Falcon (MHC-59)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719906", "text": "Mona Fitzalan-Howard, 11th Baroness Beaumont\n\nMona Josephine Tempest Fitzalan-Howard, 11th Baroness Beaumont, Baroness Howard of Glossop, OBE (née Stapleton; 1 August 1894 – 31 August 1971) was a British peer.\n\nMona was the elder of two daughters of Miles Stapleton, 10th Baron Beaumont, and his wife, Ethel Mary (Tempest). Mona was the heir to the title of her father, who accidentally shot and killed himself in 1895.\n\nOn 5 September 1914 at St Mary's Church, Carlton, Yorkshire, she married the 3rd Baron Howard of Glossop (thus also becoming Baroness Howard of Glossop). She and her husband were one of the few couples to both hold titles in their own right. They had eight children, of whom the eldest son and first-born child became 17th Duke of Norfolk in 1975, and his brothers and sisters were all granted the rank, style and precedence of a duke's younger son (as if their father had lived to succeed as Duke himself):\n\n\nIn the New Years honours list for 1946, Lady Beaumont was appointed OBE for her services during World War II to the British Red Cross at York Military Hospital, Goole.\n\nDue to a spinal injury, in later life she used a wheelchair. After the passage of the Peerage Act 1963, Beaumont became the third peeress in her own right to take her seat in the House of Lords; her husband pushed her wheelchair when she took her seat. She never spoke in the House of Lords. On her death in 1971 at the age of 77, her title passed to her eldest son, Miles, who inherited the dukedom of Norfolk from his father's cousin in 1975 and added his mother's maiden name to his own.\n\nHer great-granddaughter is actress Gabriella Wilde.\n\n", "id": "7719906", "categories": ["1971 deaths", "Barons Beaumont", "Howard family (English aristocracy)", "Officers of the Order of the British Empire", "1894 births", "Hereditary women peers"], "title": "Mona Fitzalan-Howard, 11th Baroness Beaumont"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719909", "text": "USS Cardinal (MHC-60)\n\nUSS \"Cardinal\" (MHC-60) was the tenth \"Osprey\"-class coastal mine hunter in the United States Navy. She was commissioned on 18 October 1997, decommissioned on 7 January 2007 and sold to Egypt.\n", "id": "7719909", "categories": ["1996 ships", "Ships transferred from the United States Navy to the Egyptian Navy", "Osprey-class coastal minehunters", "Ships built in Georgia (U.S. state)"], "title": "USS Cardinal (MHC-60)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719913", "text": "Levi's Stadium\n\nLevi's Stadium is an American football stadium located in Santa Clara, California, in the Bay Area. It has served as the home venue for the National Football League (NFL)'s San Francisco 49ers since 2014. The stadium is located approximately south of San Francisco and is named for Levi Strauss & Co., which purchased naming rights in 2013.\n\nIn 2006, the 49ers proposed constructing a new stadium at Candlestick Point in San Francisco, the site of their existing home, Candlestick Park. The project, which included plans for retail space and housing improvements, was claimed to be of great potential benefit to the nearby historically blighted neighborhood of Hunters Point. After negotiations with the city of San Francisco fell through, the 49ers focused their attention on a site adjacent to their administrative offices and training facility in Santa Clara.\n\nIn June 2010, Santa Clara voters approved a measure authorizing the creation of the tax-exempt Santa Clara Stadium Authority to build and own the new football stadium and for the city to lease land to the authority. A construction loan raised from private investors was secured in December 2011, allowing construction to start in April 2012. Levi's Stadium opened on July 17, 2014.\n\nLevi's Stadium has been the site of the Pac-12 Football Championship Game since 2014. Previously, that game was played on the home field of the division winner possessing the better record. Levi's Stadium hosted Super Bowl 50 on February 7, 2016. It also hosted Alabama and Clemson for the 2019 College Football Playoff National Championship.\n\nThe stadium was designed by HNTB, an internationally renowned architectural firm, with a focus on creating a multi-purpose venue and with the fan experience and green technology as top priorities. Civil engineering work was performed by Winzler & Kelly, which was acquired by GHD Group in 2011. Commissioning services were provided by Glumac.\n\nLevi's Stadium is designed as an open stadium with a natural grass field. It has a seating capacity of 68,500, expandable to approximately 75,000 to host major events like the Super Bowl and the FIFA World Cup. However, on June 27, 2015, The Grateful Dead Fare Thee Well Tour made history by extending the stadium to 83,000 in attendance. The seating design of the stadium places approximately two-thirds of the fans in the lower bowl, which is one of the largest of its kind in the entire NFL. The design features significantly improved accessibility and seating options for fans with special needs and disabilities when compared to Candlestick Park. The configuration is similar to Ford Field, home of the NFL's Detroit Lions, with the majority of the luxury suites on one side of the field, which puts the fans in the upper deck closer to the action.\n\nAs a multi-use facility, the stadium can be configured for special touring events including concerts, motocross events, indoor/outdoor conferences, and other community events. The stadium is also designed to meet the FIFA field geometry requirements for international soccer, which will allow it to host international friendly matches and major tournaments such as the FIFA World Cup. The stadium will also feature over of flexible premium meeting space in the club areas.\nThe stadium has created an in stadium app designed specifically for home football games for the 49ers to provide a better fan experience for fans and guests. The app can be downloaded for free off of the App Store and Google Play. Features are limited on non-football game days or if one is outside the vicinity of the stadium. However, when having the app within the stadium on game and event days one has many options including in-seat delivery, live streaming, navigation and much more. The app can be extended to other events hosted by the stadium if the third party would like to include its features for their guests.\n\nThe stadium has had repeated problems with the grass surface, including the grass collapsing under Baltimore Ravens kicker Justin Tucker during a week 6 game in 2015. This has led to concern that the stadium wasn't of a high enough caliber to host a high stakes game such as the Super Bowl. The problems with the turf were mentioned the day after the Super Bowl by Denver Broncos cornerback Aqib Talib who said \"The footing on the field was terrible. San Fran (the 49ers) has to play eight games on that field, so they better do something to get it fixed. It was terrible.\"\n\nStadium proponents and those who expect to profit from the construction of the stadium claim that the stadium is currently one of the largest buildings registered with the U.S. Green Building Council. It is also believed to be the first stadium that will have both a green roof and solar panels. The 49ers are exploring collaborative opportunities with the Environmental Protection Agency to explore environmentally friendly components including:\n\n\nLevi's Stadium received a Gold LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Certificate. It is the first professional football stadium in the United States to receive this certification as new construction.\n\nStadium patrons have the option of riding VTA Light Rail (Valley Transportation Authority) to the stadium. The closest light rail station is the Great America station, which is located just west of the stadium in the median of Tasman Drive.\n\nTo the east, other transit options include the VTA Lick Mill station (also in the Tasman median) as well as the Amtrak and ACE station near California's Great America.\n\nLevi's Stadium was constructed immediately east of the San Tomas Aquino Trail, a paved multi-use path installed by the City of Santa Clara in 2004 that connects to a continuous 100-mile network of off-street paths including the regional San Francisco Bay Trail. The city announced in March 2013 that the San Tomas Aquino Trail would be \"temporarily detoured between Agnew Road and Tasman Drive for approximately 1 year starting April 15 and ending when the Stadium is open,\" but this one-mile section of the trail remained closed to the public before and during stadium events since they began in August 2014, requiring the continued use of the two-mile on-street detour.\n\nThe stadium project's Final Environmental Impact Report (EIR) disclosed no such ongoing temporary closures of the trail, but stated instead that \"While there will likely be a sizeable increase in pedestrians on the San Tomas Aquino Creek trail before and after NFL events, the creek trail is open to both pedestrians and cyclists and there are no restrictions on use. Anyone at anytime can access and use the trail.\"\n\nThe stadium's official mailing address is on Marie P DeBartolo Way (formerly Centennial Boulevard), which is actually a cul-de-sac on the east side of the stadium. The primary access route to the stadium is Tasman Drive, which runs along its northern side. Tasman is a major east-west arterial road which connects to Interstate 880 several miles to the east. Both west and east of the stadium, Tasman intersects with various north-south arterial roads which connect to several important freeways, such as U.S. Route 101, California State Route 237, and Interstate 280. The closest and most important of those north-south roads is Great America Parkway to the west of the stadium, which is named after the theme park to the south.\n\nOn May 8, 2013, the 49ers announced that San Francisco-based Levi Strauss & Co. purchased the naming rights to the new stadium. The deal calls for Levi's to pay $220.3 million to the city of Santa Clara and the 49ers over 20 years, with an option to extend the deal for another five years for around $75 million. On September 14, 2015, ESPN's Chris Berman coined the name \"The Big Bellbottom\" in reference to the stadium. In a Deadspin article covering the 49ers on August 18, 2015, article writer Drew Magary coined the nickname \"the Jeanhole\" for the stadium.\n\nLevi's Stadium has been praised for its excellent sightlines, beautiful architecture, plentiful amenities, technological advancements, convenient public transportation access, and environmental sustenance. However, the stadium has been heavily criticized for its highly corporate atmosphere and lack of a football atmosphere that Candlestick Park had. With the stadium having the most expensive ticket prices in the league during its inaugural season, many long-tenured and loyal fans that had contributed to the football atmosphere at Candlestick Park could not afford to buy season tickets with the added cost of the Stadium Builders License. Also, with the several distractions inside the stadium that include multiple bars and lounges, fans would often hang out in those places while the game is going on rather than watching the game from their seats.\n\nLevi's Stadium has received some backlash from season ticket holders, who are unhappy regarding rules that won’t allow them to print their tickets until 72 hours before the game, making re-sale very difficult. In addition, older 49ers fans say that people are more segmented at Levi's Stadium in comparison to Candlestick Park, leaving tailgaters with large expanses of empty parking stalls and a more desolate tailgating experience. \nLevi's Stadium has also received heavy criticism for the way fans are treated on hot days during early-season afternoon games. The majority of fans are seated on the east side of the stadium and during these afternoon games, they are exposed to the sun as there is no shade provided due to the lack of overhangs. With the climate of Santa Clara being much warmer than San Francisco, it makes watching games on hot days uncomfortable for fans as they are less accommodated for exposure to the sun than are patrons at other stadiums in hot-weather climates. Several fans suffered heat exhaustion during preseason and early season afternoon games. This has led to the eastern stands being largely empty on hot days. This was the result of the stadium being designed with the Candlestick Point site in mind and when the team decided to build it in Santa Clara instead, they kept the design intact in order to quickly get started on construction not taking the differences in climate into account. Due regulations by the Federal Aviation Administration for being in close proximity to the airport, they cannot add any more height to the stadium, while any additional overhangs would have to be structures, making it very difficult to fix the problem. \n\nPilots flying into San Jose International Airport have frequently complained of being blinded or disoriented by the lights from the light towers and scoreboards. The stadium is directly in the flight path of one of the airport's runways. According to Bay Area NBC affiliate KNTV, there have been at least 43 complaints about the lights since the stadium opened. In response, Santa Clara mayor Lisa Gillmor promised to work with the 49ers and the Stadium Authority to determine if the lights need to be recalibrated.\n\nThe San Francisco 49ers played at Candlestick Park from 1971 to 2013. The stadium was a sentimental fan favorite and housed all 5 Super Bowl Championship teams. It was, however, the oldest unrenovated stadium in the NFL and was beginning to show its age.\n\nThe 49ers pursued a new stadium since 1997, when a plan for a stadium and a mall at Candlestick Point passed a public vote. When the plans failed to move forward, the San Francisco 49ers presented an alternative plan on July 18, 2006, to construct a new 68,500-seat, open air stadium as part of a mixed use development featuring housing, commercial and retail space. In November 2006 the team announced that plans for a new stadium at Candlestick Point were not feasible, “citing extensive costs for infrastructure, parking accommodations and other changes that would cost more than the stadium itself”. The 49ers turned their focus to making Santa Clara the home to their new stadium.\n\nSan Francisco voters in 1997 approved $100 million in city spending to build a new stadium and an attached shopping mall at Candlestick Point. However, even after voter approval to grant economic help for the project, the stadium was not constructed. This was because owner Eddie DeBartolo, Jr. was facing legal troubles, which led him to surrender ownership of the team to his sister Denise DeBartolo York and brother-in-law John York. Mills Corporation, the company chosen by the 49ers, was unable to put together a plan to successfully construct a new stadium for the team. NFL owners had gone as far as awarding the new stadium the rights to host Super Bowl XXXVII. When stadium plans stalled, the game went to San Diego's Qualcomm Stadium instead.\n\nFor years, the city and team ownership were embattled over attempts to gain funding and a green-light for construction of a new stadium. None of these attempts proved to be successful. \n\nThe city of San Francisco received a new incentive to get a new stadium built. Mayor Gavin Newsom wanted to bring the 2016 Summer Olympics to the city, and a new stadium would sweeten the city's proposal for selection by the United States Olympic Committee as the official US submission to the IOC. The announcement came in November 2006. It called for a new stadium that would be converted into a 68,600-seat stadium for the 49ers after the Olympics. The Olympic Village would be converted into low-income housing after the games were over.\n\nThe new stadium was to be built at Candlestick Point on land just southeast of Candlestick Park. The cost of the stadium would be $916 million. Lennar Corporation would build housing, retail, and office space around the stadium area. Originally, part of the area surrounding Candlestick Park was to be zoned for retail space and housing; the new 49ers stadium was to be combined with such elements, bringing much-needed attractions to the historically blighted neighborhood of Hunters Point.\n\nThe stadium would be stocked with 150 luxury suites, 7,500 premium club seats, and an increased number of seats lower and closer to the field, called \"bowl seating\", potentially raising the 49ers franchise value up as much as $250 million and offering at least $300 million in advertising and concession deals, the majority of which from paid corporate naming. The architectural design would be reminiscent of San Francisco buildings.\n\nThe project planning did not get off to a good start, however, with contention between the 49ers and the city of San Francisco over viable locations for the new stadium. Initially, the idea was to build a stadium in the parking lot of Candlestick Park and later demolish the aging stadium. Team ownership feared that construction of the village and the stadium would severely limit the amount of land available in Candlestick Point, creating a parking problem for fans and increasing traffic along the roads that link the stadium to the freeway. Moreover, with residents in the low-income housing by 2016, traffic would be permanently increased, further damaging the already-limited methods of transportation to the park.\n\nWith San Francisco slow to come up with better locations for the stadium or ways to circumvent the problems posed by construction at Candlestick Point, team owners Denise DeBartolo York and John York announced on November 9, 2006, that the 49ers were shifting their efforts to create a new stadium to the city of Santa Clara, home to the team offices and training facility since 1987, approximately south of San Francisco.\n\nThe sudden removal of the planned stadium forced the San Francisco Olympics bid group to cancel its proposal, which engendered great anger not only from Mayor Newsom, but also from such 49ers legends as Joe Montana and Ronnie Lott, who were part of the effort to bring the Olympics to the Bay Area. In addition, many fans were outraged at the suggestion to move the 49ers out of the city that it had shared history with for decades. The Yorks insisted that the legacy of the franchise would be respected in the sense that the 49ers would not be renamed nor moved out of the Bay Area. This was met with much opposition from Mayor Newsom and Senator Dianne Feinstein (who was mayor of San Francisco between 1978 and 1988); the senator stated that the team should be unable to use the San Francisco name if its operations were not based in the city. On January 3, 2007, California State Senator Carole Migden introduced a bill, entitled SB49, that would bar the 49ers from building a new stadium within a radius of San Francisco, if they were to leave the city. The 49ers organization announced its strong opposition to the legislation and retorted that passing such a bill would only encourage the team to move out of the Bay Area altogether. The bill died without being acted upon.\n\nThe Santa Clara stadium project had been in the works since 2007, with negotiations beginning in 2008. Two years later the following documents were produced that were key to understanding the stadium deal that went before the voters of Santa Clara on June 8, 2010. All documents cited below are publicly available on the City of Santa Clara’s website.\n\n\nMost city council members in Santa Clara were extremely receptive to the possibility of a new stadium being constructed there for the 49ers. In 2009, the Santa Clara City Council, led by Mayor Patricia Mahan, along with city employees began negotiating in earnest with the team, who presented the city with stadium plans. On June 2, 2009, by a 5-2 vote, the Santa Clara city council agreed to preliminary terms (as detailed in a term sheet). The official term sheet stated that the team's name would not change; the team would continue to be called the San Francisco 49ers even when the move to Santa Clara was complete.\n\nIn December 2009, Cedar Fair Entertainment, Great America's owner, filed a lawsuit to stop the project from proceeding. However, the lawsuit was dismissed in court.\n\nOn December 15, 2009, the Santa Clara City Council voted 5-2 to withdraw their city-sponsored ballot measure on the stadium issue in favor of a ballot initiative, Measure J. The ballot initiative was voted on on June 8, 2010 and passed by 58% of Santa Clara voters. Santa Clara City Council members William Kennedy and Jamie McLeod had opposed the stadium project and worked (unsuccessfully) to get Measure J defeated.\n\nMeasure J is a binding, voter-initiated measure that was approved by voters in the City of Santa Clara. All documents cited below are publicly available on the City of Santa Clara’s official website.\n\n\nThere was a possibility that the Oakland Raiders might share the stadium, allowing its costs to be split between the two teams. The stadium is designed to accommodate two teams, with the exterior LEDs being programmable for alternate colors and two home-team locker rooms. The 49ers and Raiders publicly said it would be an option if possible, while NFL commissioner Roger Goodell was strongly in favor of the two sharing a stadium. Fans of both teams reacted negatively to the idea. The arrangement would have been similar to the New York Giants and New York Jets, who shared Giants Stadium from 1984 to 2009 and currently share its successor, MetLife Stadium.\n\nThe 49ers and Raiders sharing a stadium would not have been a first, as the two shared Kezar Stadium for part of 1960. It would have also fulfilled the late Raiders owner Al Davis' goal of a new stadium, something he had strongly desired since the late 1980s although Davis was against sharing a new stadium with another NFL team in Los Angeles when the idea was proposed to him, prompting his move back to Oakland in 1995. The Raiders, as it stands, play at the Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum and are the only NFL team still sharing its home field with a Major League Baseball team; the Raiders' lease on the Coliseum has been on year-to-year extensions since the expiration of the last long-term lease in 2013.\n\nIn the wake of Davis' death, the possibility of the 49ers and Raiders sharing the stadium became a stronger possibility. However, by October 2011, the 49ers were far enough along on the stadium to have reportedly already sold over a quarter of the luxury suites, meaning the Raiders would be forced to be secondary tenants. In October 2012, Oakland Raiders owner Mark Davis told reporters he had no plans to share the Santa Clara stadium with the 49ers. According to the report, discussions remained open, although Davis wanted to keep the team in Oakland, or a nearby site in Dublin.\n\nWhen the stadium had its grand opening on July 17, 2014, Goodell mentioned to the live crowd that it would make a great home for the Raiders and that it was up for the team to decide whether or not it wanted to play there or build a stadium on the site of the Oakland Coliseum. While the 49ers remained open to sharing the stadium with the Raiders, the Raiders said that their personal preference was the Coliseum site.\n\nOn February 20, 2015, the Raiders announced that they would be seeking a joint stadium in Carson, with the San Diego Chargers should they not receive public funding to replace the Oakland Coliseum, reducing the likelihood of the Raiders sharing Levi's Stadium with the 49ers. In January 2016, after losing their bid to relocate to Los Angeles to the Los Angeles Rams, the Raiders withdrew their request to move to Los Angeles, and joint tenancy at Levi's again surfaced in general discussion. However, in March 2017, the Raiders were approved for a move to Las Vegas for the 2020 season, with the new Las Vegas Stadium under construction as their future home.\n\nLevi's Stadium was mentioned as a possible temporary home for the Oakland Raiders for the 2019 season before they relocate to Las Vegas. Santa Clara officials drew up plans for this possibility. However, the Raiders signed a one-year lease extension for the Oakland Coliseum, with an option for a second year of construction in Las Vegas is delayed, ending any possibility of them playing at Levi's Stadium.\n\nIn December 2011, the Santa Clara City Council voted for an agreement that calls for the city’s Stadium Authority to borrow $850 million from Goldman Sachs, Bank of America and U.S. Bank. This will cover most of the construction costs, with the remainder to be made up via funding from the NFL, a hotel tax and city redevelopment funds. Interest, fees and terms for this loan have not been disclosed. The $850 million building loan, plus interest and fees will be assumed by the City's Stadium Authority, where additional interest and fees will be applied.\nOn February 2, 2012, NFL owners approved a loan to the 49ers of $200 million for use in constructing the new stadium, and to be taken from a new G-4 stadium loan fund. Terms of the loan were not specified, but under the previous G-3 plan, money was repaid directly into the league's account from the borrowing team's share of gate receipts from road games.\n\nConstruction began soon after funding for the stadium had been confirmed. The official groundbreaking took place on April 19, 2012. On July 30, 2012, the first steel beams for the stadium were laid down. The first seats in Levi's Stadium were installed on October 1, 2013.\n\nConstruction was halted on June 11, 2013, after a mechanic working on an elevator was struck by a counterweight and then fell down the shaft to his death. Work resumed two days later after officials from the California Occupational Safety and Health Administration (Cal/OSHA) declared the site safe, but as of October 2013, the accident remained under investigation.\n\nThe Santa Clara stadium was constructed on a city-owned parking lot on Tasman Drive, located adjacent to the north of California's Great America theme park and leased to Great America for overflow parking. As with Candlestick Park, there are relatively few amenities in the stadium's immediate vicinity for sports fans, besides the 49ers headquarters and training facility. The Santa Clara Convention Center is northwest of the stadium site and there are two hotels on Tasman Drive next to the convention center, but the closest significant concentration of hotels and restaurants is on the Mission College Boulevard corridor almost a mile to the south, on the other side of Great America.\n\nThe stadium opened on July 17, 2014. It was originally scheduled to open on July 11, but was pushed back due to construction delays.\nThe first game played at the new stadium was a Major League Soccer match on August 2, 2014, where the San Jose Earthquakes defeated Seattle Sounders FC 1–0 before a crowd of 48,765. The inaugural goal was scored in the 42nd minute by Yannick Djaló.\n\nOn August 17, 2014, the 49ers lost their first preseason game, 34–0, against the Denver Broncos at Levi's Stadium. One fan at the game collapsed due to the heat and had to be rushed to a local hospital, where he died.\n\nThe first 49ers' regular-season game at the stadium was held during Week 2 on September 14, 2014, when the team hosted the Chicago Bears on \"Sunday Night Football\". The Bears won the game 28–20 in front of a 49ers home record attendance of 70,799.\n\nIn November 2013, stadium and 49ers' officials initially requested the NFL to not schedule any Monday or Thursday night home games during Levi's Stadium's inaugural season due to parking issues in the area surrounding the stadium during weekdays. Two months later, in January 2014, the Santa Clara city government was able to secure more than the 21,000 necessary parking spots by approving use of the fairways at the city-owned Santa Clara Golf and Tennis Club (which is located to the north of the stadium across Tasman Drive). This arrangement is similar to and was modeled upon a longstanding arrangement between the Rose Bowl in Pasadena and the adjacent Brookside Golf Course, where the golf course was modified to allow for vehicular access to the fairways; they are used for parking only when dry to minimize damage, and any damage that does occur is repaired afterward.\n\nWith access to the golf course fairways, Levi's Stadium now had 31,600 potential parking spaces, meaning that tailgating and weeknight games were now a possibility. However, the NFL decided not to schedule any weeknight home games at Levi's Stadium in 2014 until traffic flow within the area is figured out, with the exception of a Thanksgiving game between the 49ers and the Seattle Seahawks on November 27, 2014. Parking prices, which averaged $30 in the 49ers' final season at Candlestick Park, will increase to $40 at Levi's Stadium.\n\nAnticipating significant traffic from Levi's Stadium visitors, the nearby city of Mountain View instituted a three-hour parking limit on downtown streets during game days. While residents received exemptions via permit tags, stadium-goers must park in paid lots or far from Mountain View's Caltrain/VTA light rail station. This station is the closest VTA light rail station to San Francisco and receives transferring passengers heading south to San Jose via light rail (including people using the light rail to go directly to the Levi's Stadium station).\n\nIn Spring 2015, 49ers' officials offered the city of Santa Clara $15 million to take over the adjacent Santa Clara Youth Soccer Park and convert these soccer fields into additional parking lots. This money, along with a large percentage of parking fees, would have then been used for the city to build a new youth sports complex elsewhere. The plan was opposed by the youth soccer leagues that use the fields, and critics calling it a \"land grab\". After many youth soccer players attended a city council meeting on April 29 to protest the proposal, the 49ers withdrew the $15 million offer. The team then gave the city an unsolicited offer of $3 million to help improve various youth athletic fields and facilities, which was cited as a peace offering by \"San Francisco Chronicle\" columnists Phil Matier and Andrew Ross, and other Bay Area media, but the city council turned the offer down.\n\nSuper Bowl 50 was held at the stadium on February 7, 2016. The Denver Broncos defeated the Carolina Panthers 24–10. Lady Gaga performed the national anthem, and Coldplay performed with Beyoncé and Bruno Mars at halftime.\n\nLevi's Stadium hosted WWE's WrestleMania 31 on March 29, 2015. This was the first time WrestleMania was hosted in Northern California and the sixth WrestleMania to be held in California. \nThe area also hosted various activities in the week-long celebration leading up to WrestleMania itself.\n\nThe show set an attendance record for the stadium, with 76,976. It drew a $12.6 million gate.\n\nLevi's Stadium hosted the 2015 NHL Stadium Series' February 21 game between the Los Angeles Kings and San Jose Sharks. The Kings defeated the Sharks 2-1, in front of a crowd of 70,205.\n\nSoccer\n\nOn July 31, 2014, the San Jose Earthquakes agreed to play one match per year for five years at Levi's Stadium. On September 6, 2014, an international friendly between Mexico and Chile was held. The stadium also hosted a 2015 International Champions Cup match between Barcelona and Manchester United on July 25, 2015, when United won 3–1. A 2016 International Champions Cup match featured A.C. Milan and Liverpool on July 30, 2016, with Liverpool winning 2–0.\n\nIn June 2016, Levi's Stadium hosted four games at the Copa América Centenario; the opening match between United States and Colombia, two other group stage matches, and a quarter-final where Chile defeated Mexico. \n\nA 2017 International Champions Cup game was held on July 23, 2017, when Manchester United defeated Real Madrid 1-1 (2-1 in a penalty shootout).\n\nOn July 26, 2017, the United States defeated Jamaica 2-1 to win their sixth CONCACAF Gold Cup title. \nOn March 23, 2018, Mexico won 3–0 against Iceland in a friendly in both teams' preparation for the 2018 FIFA World Cup.\n\nA 2018 International Champions Cup game was held on August 4, 2018, when AC Milan defeated FC Barcelona 1-0 with a last second goal by André Silva.\n\nOn May 12, 2019, the United States women's national soccer team played its first send-off series match ahead of the 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup, defeating South Africa 3-0.\n\nLevi's Stadium has hosted numerous college football games. The first college game played there was an October 2014 regular season game between the Oregon Ducks and the California Golden Bears, in which Oregon won. The stadium is the home of the Redbox Bowl (formerly the Foster Farms Bowl) and since 2014 has served as the host for the Pac-12 Championship Game. In January 2019, Levi's Stadium hosted the 2019 College Football Playoff National Championship, marking the first time the College Football Playoff title game was played there.\n\n\n", "id": "7719913", "categories": ["Sports venues in Santa Clara County, California", "Soccer in the San Francisco Bay Area", "National Football League venues", "CONCACAF Gold Cup stadiums", "2014 establishments in California", "American football venues in California", "San Francisco 49ers stadiums", "Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design certified buildings", "Soccer venues in California", "Tourist attractions in Santa Clara, California", "Sports venues completed in 2014", "Sports in Santa Clara, California", "Ice hockey venues in California", "Outdoor ice hockey venues in the United States", "NCAA bowl game venues", "Olympic football venues"], "title": "Levi's Stadium"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719917", "text": "Calvin Veltman\n\nCalvin Veltman (born 1941) is an American sociologist, demographer and sociolinguist at the Université du Québec à Montréal. He previously worked at the State University of New York at Plattsburgh. In the United States, his work on English use and acquisition among Hispanics is well known.\n\n\naméricains.\" Demographie et Cultures. (http://www-aidelf.ined.fr/colloques/ Quebec/aidelf-2008/IMG/pdf/VELTMANT.pdf). [In French] 2008.\n\n", "id": "7719917", "categories": ["Living people", "Sociolinguists", "1941 births", "American sociologists", "State University of New York faculty"], "title": "Calvin Veltman"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719922", "text": "USS Shrike (MHC-62)\n\nUSS \"Shrike\" (MHC-62) is the twelfth and last ship of \"Osprey\"-class coastal mine hunters.\n\n", "id": "7719922", "categories": ["1997 ships", "Osprey-class coastal minehunters"], "title": "USS Shrike (MHC-62)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719940", "text": "Thacker's Indian Directory\n\nThacker, Spink & Co. was a well-known Kolkata publishing company. \"Thacker's Bengal Directory\" was published from 1864 to 1884 and covered the Bengal Presidency – which included the present day Myanmar and Bangladesh. From 1885 the \"Directory\" covered the whole of British India and was renamed Thacker's Indian Directory. It was later owned by Maharaja of Darbhanga. It continued to be published until 1960.\n\nThe directory was essentially an almanac which listed British and Foreign Merchants and Manufacturers, Commercial Industries, Army, railway and government departments and office holders, European residents, and separately, prominent non-European residents. Earlier editions of \"Thacker\" had street directories of major cities, such as Kolkata and Yangon, together with the name of the residents of each house.\n\nSimilar directories published included:\n", "id": "7719940", "categories": ["Almanacs", "Books about British India", "Directories"], "title": "Thacker's Indian Directory"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719963", "text": "Filmfare Award for Best Lyricist – Telugu\n\nThe Telugu Filmfare Best Lyricist Award is given by the \"Filmfare\" magazine as part of its annual Filmfare Awards for Telugu films.\n\nThe award was first given in 2005. Here is a list of the award winners and the films for which they won.Sirivennela won most awards in this category 4 times.\n\n", "id": "7719963", "categories": [], "title": "Filmfare Award for Best Lyricist – Telugu"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719976", "text": "Lactobacillus brevis\n\nLactobacillus brevis is a gram-positive, rod shaped species of lactic acid bacteria which is heterofermentive, creating CO2 and lactic acid during fermentation. There are approximately 16 different species in L. brevis group. It can be found in many different environments, such as fermented foods, and as normal microbiota. \"L.brevis\" is found in food such as sauerkraut and pickles. It is also one of the most common causes of beer spoilage. Ingestion has been shown to improve human immune function, and it has been patented several times. Normal gut \"microbiota\" \"L.brevis\" is found in human intestines, vagina and feces.\n\n\"L. brevis\" is one of the major \"Lactobacillus\" species found in tibicos grains, used to make kefir, and has been identified as the species responsible for the production of the polysaccharide (dextran) that forms the grains. Major metabolites of \"L. brevis\" include lactic acid and ethanol. Strains of \"L. brevis\" and \"L. hilgardii\" have been found to produce the biogenic amines tyramine and phenylethylamine.\n\nE.B.Fred, W.H. Peterson, and J.A. Anderson initially discovered the entire Lactobacillus species in 1921 and the species was categorized based on the ability to metabolize certain carbon and sugars. This early study showed that this can produce acetic acid, carbon dioxide and large amounts of mannitol. Mannitol which is another carbon source that can be used to produce lactic acid.\n\n\"L. brevis\" has been shown to actively transport glucose and galactose. When fructose was used as a carbon source there was only some growth and \"L. brevis\" was able to partially metabolize the fructose to mannitol. Normal growth follows the lactic acid pathway that is commonly used by most lactic acid bacterium. There are some strains that poorly metabolize glucose, whereas other strain are able to easily metabolize the sugar. As stated, this is considered a lactic acid pathway.By using the fermentation pathway the end result is lactic acid. It appears that under high temperature conditions, 50 degrees Celsius and in acidic environments the survival of this bacteria is longer than most bacteria under acidic conditions, the bacteria can live about 45 minutes.\n\nAntibiotic resistance is acquired through conjugation, a method of bacterial reproduction. Conjugation permits a sharing of DNA allowing the bacterium to learn about various antibiotics through exposure and this information is passed down through replication between bacteria. \n\"L. brevis\" produces more organic acids, specifically acetic acid and ethanol. This means that this bacterium produces an increased acidic environment and alcohol. Growth conditions all depend on the location of the bacterium within the intestines. It does seem that they are unable to significantly replicate in anaerobic environments.\n\nMetabolic pathways are defined to mean the chemical process that occurs within an organism. \"L. brevis\" uses the glycolysis process to metabolize carbon sources by active transport, which moves material against the concentration gradient, normally this occurs is a movement from a high to low concentration. This pathway is used in probiotics and food preservation. \n\"L. brevis\" is found in food such as sauerkraut and pickles. It is also one of the most common causes of beer spoilage. The hop, which is an antimicrobial bitter flavoring agent in beer, fails to suppress some strains of L. brevis because they produce a transporter that pumps the active agents of hops out of the bacterial cell. \"L. brevis\" is one of the major \"Lactobacillus\" species found in tibicos grains (aka water kefir grains), and has been identified as the species responsible for the production of the polysaccharide (dextran) that forms the grains. Major metabolites of \"L. brevis\" include lactic acid and ethanol. Strains of \"L. brevis\" and \"L. hilgardii\" have been found to produce the biogenic amines tyramine, which is found by the fermentation metabolic pathway and is commonly found in spoiled or fermented foods and phenylethylamine, which is found in chocolates but can also produce a fishy odor in other foods.\nAs a bacterium there are some physical attributes that are common for all bacteria. Gram-positive bacteria consists of an external plasma membrane, followed by periplasmic space and finally a peptidoglycan layer, which faces the interior of the bacteria. The external plasma membrane is very important for bacteria because this is how cells recognize the possible pathogenesis of the bacteria. Peptidoglycan is also called murein and is made up of a series of sugars. Within gram-positive bacteria the peptidoglycan layer is much thicker than gram-negative bacteria. The actual lattice that comprises peptidoglycan is referred to as the S-layer; this lattice is linked to the peptidoglycan layer. Unfortunately, the S-layer is normally lost when processing the bacteria under laboratory conditions, which can affect measuring adhesion. When the S-layer is dissolved with high concentration levels of substances that break down hydrogen bonds the S-layers have a survival time of about 20 minutes with each generation. \"L.brevis\" contains approximately two promotors within this area, meaning that there is significant transcription of the S-layer by high levels of transcribing of the sIpA gene. SipA is a gene that has been found to aid in the coding for the production of murin (peptidoglycan) within the bacteria. The purpose of transcription is to copy DNA into a mRNA, which is used to create proteins. The promoter is used during transcription to identify the appropriate location to begin transcribing. Within probiotics it is actually the S-layer that attaches to the cellular wall of the gastrointestinal tract \nIngestion of probiotics has been shown to improve human immune function, and \"L. brevis\" has been patented several times. \"L. brevis\" has been shown to survive in the gastrointestinal tract in humans and can therefore be used as a probiotic. Currently the bacterium does not have the ability to convert milk to yogurt however, they are appropriate to be used as an alternative to other probiotics in yogurts. Within the geriatric population use of the bacteria in milk has been shown to increase cellular immunity. Dietary probiotic supplementation enhances natural killer cell activity in the elderly (an investigation of age-related immunological changes). \"L. brevis\" is considered appropriate for probiotic use because there is significant growth at pH’s 4-5, pH 5 is normally the appropriate range for milk and yogurts.\n\nThere are significant vaginal bacteria that are found within the vagina and \"L. brevis\" is included in this microbiome, which is a collection of various bacteria. The bacteria collaborate on protecting the vagina and vaginal maintenance. Women of childbearing ages have a significant amount of \"L.brevis\" and this is normally found in a healthy vagina. For some illnesses or disruptions of the vagina this bacteria can be used in aiding to restore the microbiome. Most of the Lactobacillus species of bacteria have been found useful in preventing urinary tract infections. The efficiency in which a bacterium can defend the body is:\n(1) Their symbiosis with potential pathogens.\n(2) Their capability of producing antibacterial materials, such as hydrogen peroxide, to limit pathogen growth.\n(3) Their production of biosurfactants that inhibit pathogen adherence.\n(4) Their ability to prime macrophages, leukocytes, cytokines, and other host defenses.\n\nDuring normal childbirth, it appears that newborns after a period of days receive transmission of \"L. brevis\" from the mother. It appears that the transmission occurs through breast feeding or through natural child birth. In infants, this resistance is also helpful with protecting the gut against various bile and acids. \"Helicobacter pylori,\" which is a common gut pathogen in humans, studies have shown that certain strains of \"L.brevis\" are successful at combating this pathogen.\n\nVaginosis is the most common form of bacterial infection this is commonly diagnosed as a yeast infection or trichomoniasis, which is a sexually transmitted parasite commonly acquired during intercourse. \"L.brevis\" along with \"Lactobacillus jensenii\" has been shown to produce high levels of hydrogen peroxide which may be able remediate the bacterial vaginosis pathogenesis.\"L. Brevis\" is a commonly used ingredient in pharmaceutical materials used to treat vaginosis. An evaluation of clue cells is one method of assessing vaginosis; this assessment is performed by mounting clue cells and vaginal discharge onto a slide then adding sodium chloride followed by a microscopic assessment which involves bacteria identification.\n\nIn addition to surviving within the gut of an organism, \"L.Brevis\" can also act to inhibit the pathogenic effects of certain gut pathogens and can also proliferate in the presence of additional bacteria. Some strains are resistant to certain antibiotics, specifically erythromycin and clindamycin. This antibiotic resistance may be helpful in maintaining a healthy gut microbiome when taking prescribed antibiotics.\n\n", "id": "7719976", "categories": ["Lactobacillaceae", "Food science"], "title": "Lactobacillus brevis"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719983", "text": "Armuchee-Cohutta Ranger District\n\nThe Armuchee-Cohutta Ranger District is one of the five ranger districts of the Chattahoochee National Forest. Armuchee is thought to be derived from the Cherokee word for \"hominy,\" to be derived from the Choctaw word \"alurnushi\", meaning \"hiding place\" or mean the \"land of the flowers.\" Cohutta is derived from the Cherokee word \"cohutta\", which means \"frog\" or could mean \"a shed roof supported on poles.\" The district is spread through portions of Catoosa, Chattooga, Fannin, Floyd, Gilmer, Gordon, Murray, Walker and Whitfield Counties in Georgia. Some of the features within the borders of the district are the Big Frog Wilderness, the Cohutta Wilderness and the Rich Mountain Wilderness.\n\nThe current headquarters for the Armuchee-Cohutta Ranger District is located in Chatsworth, Georgia. The District offers a variety of outdoor activities including the Chestnut Mountain Shooting Range, Dry Creek Equestrian Tail, Pinhoti Trail, Houston Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Trail System, Keown Falls Day Use Area, Jack's River Trail and more.\n\n", "id": "7719983", "categories": ["Protected areas of Walker County, Georgia", "Protected areas of Chattooga County, Georgia", "Protected areas of Whitfield County, Georgia", "Protected areas of Gordon County, Georgia", "Protected areas of Gilmer County, Georgia", "Protected areas of Catoosa County, Georgia", "Protected areas of Floyd County, Georgia", "Protected areas of Fannin County, Georgia"], "title": "Armuchee-Cohutta Ranger District"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719989", "text": "Jason MacDonald\n\nJason Anthony MacDonald (born June 3, 1975) is a Canadian former mixed martial artist who is perhaps best known for his two stints with the Ultimate Fighting Championship as a middleweight. He is also a veteran of the Maximum Fighting Championship and TKO Major League MMA in his native country of Canada.\n\nMacDonald began his career in local Canadian promotions, including the MFC, racking up a 16-7 professional record which included wins over UFC veterans Joe Doerksen, Gideon Ray, and Bill Mahood.\n\nMacDonald made his UFC debut on October 10, 2006, at \"\" against the favored \"The Ultimate Fighter 3\" finalist Ed Herman. In an upset, MacDonald won the bout via triangle choke in the first round. MacDonald followed up the performance with a win over \"The Ultimate Fighter 1\" veteran Chris Leben via modified guillotine choke in the second round. Both victories earned \"Submission of the Night\" honors.\n\nMacDonald lost in competition at \"UFC 68\" with a match-up against Rich Franklin in his first appearance since losing the UFC Middleweight Championship to Anderson Silva. Franklin mounted MacDonald in the final seconds of round two, causing enough injury to MacDonald's left eye area that his corner advised him to throw in the towel, and Franklin was declared the winner.\n\nAt \"UFC 72\", MacDonald rebounded from his loss to Franklin with a second-round TKO victory over Rory Singer. This marked his third victory over \"The Ultimate Fighter\" veterans.\n\nAt \"UFC 77\", MacDonald faced Yushin Okami, who was coming off a loss to Franklin in a title contention elimination bout. MacDonald lost the fight via unanimous decision (30-27, 30-27, 30-27).\n\nMacDonald fell back from the defeat at \"UFC 83\", defeating Joe Doerksen via TKO (elbows) in the second round and earning a $75,000 bonus for \"Knockout of the Night\" in the process. A small controversy erupted after MacDonald landed two hammerfists after it appeared the fight had been stopped. In an interview the day after the fight, MacDonald explained that the referee had instructed him to continue fighting and had even apologized to him for his error in judgment.\n\nAt \"UFC 87\", MacDonald faced Brazilian Demian Maia. The fight took place almost completely on the ground, with MacDonald escaping numerous submission attempts. Ultimately in the third round, Maia locked in a rear-naked choke for the victory.\n\nOnly a month later, MacDonald went on to fight as a replacement for Jason Day at \"UFC 88\". He won against Jason Lambert at 1:20 of round two by rear-naked choke, earning his third \"Submission of the Night\" bonus.\n\nMacDonald followed up with a bout at \"\" against Wilson Gouveia. MacDonald lost the fight via submission due to elbows after being dropped with a glancing left jab by Gouveia and pounded on for the stoppage.\n\nAt \"UFC 97\", MacDonald suffered a first-round TKO loss to Nate Quarry due to elbows from a mounted position.\n\nDespite earlier suggestions from Dana White that MacDonald's position in the UFC roster was safe despite his recent lack of success, the UFC released MacDonald several weeks later. Matchmaker Joe Silva commented that the door would be left open for MacDonald to return should he earn a few more victories in smaller promotions.\n\nAt the \"MFC 21\" event on May 15, 2009, MacDonald announced that he was returning to the Canadian promotion Maximum Fighting Championship. He fought Travis Lutter in the main event of \"MFC 22\" on October 2, 2009, losing a unanimous decision.\n\nJason MacDonald faced TUF 3 competitor and fellow UFC veteran Solomon Hutcherson at MFC 23 defeating him by split decision giving MacDonald his fifth victory over a TUF competitor.\n\nOn March 20, 2010, MacDonald replaced Denis Kang in the main event of W1 Bad Blood. He defeated Vernon White in the 3rd round via triangle choke.\n\nOn April 23, 2010, MacDonald defeated Matt Horwich via unanimous decision in the main event of the very first Let's Get It On MMA tournament event.\n\nMacDonald returned to the UFC and faced up and coming wrestler John Salter on May 8, 2010, at UFC 113, replacing an injured Nick Catone. After 2:42 of the first round, MacDonald's leg broke during a takedown attempt by Salter and the fight was stopped, declaring Salter the winner by TKO due to injury.\n\nMacDonald was scheduled to face Rafael Natal on December 11, 2010, at UFC 124, but pulled out of the fight after suffering an injury in training.\n\nNearly a year after his last bout, MacDonald fought and submitted Ryan Jensen via first-round triangle choke at UFC 129 on April 30, 2011.\n\nMacDonald faced Alan Belcher on September 17, 2011 at UFC Fight Night 25, losing via verbal submission due to strikes in the first round.\n\nMacDonald faced Tom Lawlor on May 15, 2012 at . He lost the fight via KO in the first round. On February 28, 2013, MacDonald announced his retirement from MMA, leaving his UFC record standing at 6-8.\n\nMacDonald owns and runs his own gym, Pure Fitness & MMA, located in Red Deer, Alberta, Canada. He also runs his own fight promotion called Pure Fighting Championship.\nHe manages a number of Canadian professional MMA fighters, including Ryan Machan, Evan Sanguin, George Belanger and Derek Clark.\n\nMacDonald and his wife Kelly have four children, sons Tristin and Keel and daughters Jett and True.\n\nJason is also a CrossFit Trainer, and works for CrossFit HQ co-teaching the CrossFit Level 1 Trainer Certification course.\n\n\n", "id": "7719989", "categories": ["Canadian people of Scottish descent", "Sportspeople from Nova Scotia", "Canadian male mixed martial artists", "Canadian prison officers", "Living people", "Middleweight mixed martial artists", "1975 births", "People from New Glasgow, Nova Scotia", "Canadian practitioners of Brazilian jiu-jitsu"], "title": "Jason MacDonald"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719994", "text": "Filmfare Award for Best Male Playback Singer – Telugu\n\nThe Telugu Filmfare Best Male Playback Award is given by the \"Filmfare\" magazine as part of its annual Filmfare Awards for Telugu films.The award was first given in 1997.\nKarthik holds the record of maximum win in this category with three.\n\nHere is a list of the award winners and the films for which they won.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7719994", "categories": [], "title": "Filmfare Award for Best Male Playback Singer – Telugu"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720003", "text": "Filmfare Award for Best Female Playback Singer – Telugu\n\nThe Filmfare Best Female Playback Award - Telugu is given by the \"Filmfare\" magazine as part of its annual Telugu Filmfare Awardss for Telugu films. The first Telugu award was given in 2006. However, since 1997 till 2005, a common award for playback was available for both Male and Female singers of all the four South Indian languages.\n\nThe following is a list of the award winners and the film and song for which they won.\n\nBefore 2009, the nominees were announced publicly only in 2006 and 2007. The list along with winners:\n\n2006: Smita - \"Evaraina\" - \"Anukokunda Oka Roju\"\n\n2007: \"'Mamta Mohandas - \"Rakhi Rakhi\" - \"Rakhi\"\n\n2009: Shweta Pandit - \"Nenani Neevani\" - \"Kotha Bangaru Lokam\"\n\n2010: Priya Himesh - \"Ringa Ringa\" - \"Arya 2\"\n\n2011: Geetha Madhuri - \"Magallu\" - \"Golimaar\"\n\n2012: Shreya Ghoshal – \"Jagadhananda Karaka\" - \"Sri Rama Rajyam\"\n\n2013: Suchitra – \"Saar Osthara\" - \"Businessman\"\n\n2014: K. S. Chithra - \"Seethamma Vakitlo\" - \"Seethamma Vakitlo Sirimalle Chettu\"\n\n2015: Sunitha Upadrashta - \"Yem Sandeham Ledu\" - \"Oohalu Gusagusalade\"\n\n2016: Geetha Madhuri - \"Jeevanadhi\" - \"\"\n\n2017: K. S. Chithra – \"Ee Premaki\" - \"Nenu Sailaja\"\n\n2018: Madhu Priya – \"Vachchinde\" - \"Fidaa\"\n\n", "id": "7720003", "categories": ["Filmfare Awards South (Telugu)"], "title": "Filmfare Award for Best Female Playback Singer – Telugu"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720006", "text": "Netherlands women's national softball team\n\nThe Netherlands women's national softball team is the national team of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. It is governed by the Koninklijke Nederlandse Baseball en Softball Bond (Royal Dutch Baseball and Softball Federation). It is a member nation of the Confederation of European Baseball and the International Baseball Federation.\n\nThe team competed at the 1990 ISF Women's World Championship in Normal, Illinois where they finished with 5 wins and 4 losses. The team competed at the 1994 ISF Women's World Championship in St. John's, Newfoundland where they finished eighth. The team competed at the 1998 ISF Women's World Championship in Fujinomiya City, Japan where they finished ninth. The team competed at the 2002 ISF Women's World Championship in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan where they finished eleventh. The team competed at the 2010 ISF Women's World Championship in Caracas, Venezuela where they finished eighth.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7720006", "categories": ["Women's national softball teams", "Softball in the Netherlands", "Women's national sports teams of the Netherlands"], "title": "Netherlands women's national softball team"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720013", "text": "Veľká Domaša\n\nDomaša is a dam along the Ondava River, situated in the mountains surrounding The Low Beskids, in the north of the town Vranov nad Topľou, in Eastern Slovakia.\n\nThe Domaša Dam Lake was built by blocking the Ondava river at the village of Veľká Domaša. The villages of Dobrá nad Ondavou, Trepec, Kelča, Valkov, and Petejovce and their environs were flooded. The construction began in 1962 and was completed in 1967. The lake’s water surface, which is long, wide and between deep, covers an area of .\n\nDomaša is spread over the area of the districts of Vranov nad Topľou and Stropkov at the average altitude of . With an agreeable climate and an average temperature of it guarantees pleasant swimming in clean water from June to mid-September.\n\nThe lake created by the dam is one of the few remnants of a belt of wetlands that formerly stretched from the Tisa-Danube confluence to the Vihorlat Mountains. The banks abound in a variety of water fowl, such as black stork, plover, swan, heron and duck. Representatives of some bird predators can also be spotted here.\n\nFishermen can delight in calm places with rich occurrence of fish like carp, pike, eel, silver salmon or barbell. Rich fishing is available also in a neighbouring lake near the villages of Malá Domaša and Slovenská Kajňa.\n\nThe lake, surrounded by rolling hills, offers wide possibilities of recreation and water sports. The right bank of the lake is covered by forests, and on the opposite side woods alternate with meadows. The area is highly suitable for mushroom-pickers, hunters and lovers of long hikes in the country.\n\nThere are five holiday destinations: Dobrá, Poľany, Holčíkovce, Nová Kelča and Valkov. Its western bank is accessible from Prešov through Hanušovce nad Topľou by a long road leading through beech forests of the Low Beskids and ending in the Dobrá recreation centre.\n\nAlong the lake's eastern bank runs the main road from Vranov nad Topľou through Stropkov to Dukla, a Slovak – Polish border crossing. The same road offers access to the Poľany, Holčíkovce and Nová Kelča recreation centres. From the towns of Giraltovce, Stropkov and Svidník there is another access route to the two recreation centres on the western bank of the lake, Bžany and Valkov. Each centre provides a network of shopping services, public toilets, drinking water supply, sports equipment rentals and parking lots.\n\n\n", "id": "7720013", "categories": [], "title": "Veľká Domaša"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720015", "text": "Filmfare Award for Best Comedian – Telugu\n\nThe Telugu Filmfare Best Comedian Award is given by the \"Filmfare\" magazine as part of its annual Filmfare Awards for Telugu films.\n\nThe award was introduced and first given at the 50th South Filmfare Awards in 2003, with Brahmanandam being the first recipient. This category has been retired from 2005. Here is a list of the award winners and the films for which they won.\n\n", "id": "7720015", "categories": [], "title": "Filmfare Award for Best Comedian – Telugu"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720017", "text": "Filmfare Award for Best Dance Choreographer – South\n\nThe Filmfare Best Choreography Award is given by the \"Filmfare\" magazine as part of its annual Filmfare Awards for South Indian films.\n\nHere is a list of the award winners and the films for which they won.\n\n", "id": "7720017", "categories": ["Filmfare Awards South"], "title": "Filmfare Award for Best Dance Choreographer – South"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720022", "text": "The Sign of Four (disambiguation)\n\nThe Sign of Four may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7720022", "categories": [], "title": "The Sign of Four (disambiguation)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720028", "text": "Eliza Jane Pratt\n\nEliza Jane Pratt (March 5, 1902 – May 13, 1981) was a U.S. Representative from North Carolina, the first woman to represent her state in the U.S. Congress.\n\nPratt was born in Anson County, North Carolina on March 5, 1902. She attended Queens College in Charlotte, North Carolina from 1918 to 1920.\n\nIn 1923, Pratt worked as an editor for the \"Montgomerian\" newspaper in Troy, North Carolina. In 1924, she was hired as an administrative assistant for Congressman William C. Hammer. Following Hammer's death in 1930, Pratt worked for a succession of North Carolina representatives: Hinton James, J. Walter Lambeth and William O. Burgin.\n\nWhen Burgin died in office in 1946, Pratt was elected as a Democrat to fill the vacancy. She served from May 25, 1946, to January 3, 1947, and was not a candidate in the 1946 general election. During her time in office, Pratt was appointed to three committees: Pensions, Territories, and Flood Control.\n\nPratt went on to a variety of federal government jobs between 1947-1956 with the Office of Alien Property, the Agriculture Department, and the Library of Congress. She worked as secretary for another member of Congress, Alvin Paul Kitchin, from 1957 through 1962. In 1962, Pratt returned to North Carolina and worked as a public relations executive for the North Carolina Telephone Company.\n\n\n", "id": "7720028", "categories": ["20th-century American women politicians", "Members of the United States House of Representatives from North Carolina", "20th-century American politicians", "North Carolina Democrats", "Female members of the United States House of Representatives", "1981 deaths", "1902 births", "Women in North Carolina politics", "Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives"], "title": "Eliza Jane Pratt"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720029", "text": "Toccoa Ranger District\n\nThe Toccoa Ranger District is one of the five ranger districts of the Chattahoochee National Forest. The district is spread through portions of Dawson, Fannin, Gilmer, Lumpkin and Union Counties in Georgia. Springer Mountain and the southern terminus of the Appalachian Trail are in the district, along with a portion of the Toccoa River.\n\nThe current headquarters for the Toccoa Ranger District is located in Blue Ridge, Georgia. The district offers a variety of outdoor activities including the Aska Trails Area, Cooper Creek Campground and Cooper Creek Trail, Toccoa River Canoe Trail, Whisenhunt OHV Trails and more. \n\n", "id": "7720029", "categories": ["Protected areas of Fannin County, Georgia", "Protected areas of Union County, Georgia", "Protected areas of Gilmer County, Georgia", "Protected areas of Dawson County, Georgia", "Protected areas of Lumpkin County, Georgia"], "title": "Toccoa Ranger District"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720031", "text": "BCPA Flight 304\n\nBCPA Flight 304/44 was a scheduled flight operated by British Commonwealth Pacific Airlines from Sydney, Australia, to Vancouver, Canada, with scheduled stops at Fiji, Canton Island, Honolulu and San Francisco. On 29 October 1953, the flight was conducted by a Douglas DC-6 named \"Resolution\" and registered in Australia as VH-BPE. The propliner crashed during its initial approach towards San Francisco International Airport, killing all 19 people on board, including the American pianist William Kapell.\n\nThe aircraft was flying the Honolulu – San Francisco leg with a crew of 8 and 11 passengers (10 adults and 1 child). The estimated flying time was 9 hours and 25 minutes. Captain Bruce N. Dickson (aged 34) and his crew took over the plane in Honolulu as scheduled.\n\nDickson and his First Officer, Frank A. Campbell (aged 28), each had several thousand hours of flight time in the DC-6. Both pilots had made more than 100 approaches into San Francisco Airport, many of which were instrument approaches. On 29 October the weather in the San Francisco area did not present adverse flight conditions, but visual reference with the ground was precluded by the overcast foggy conditions so an instrument approach was required.\n\nAs the flight neared the California coast, the crew contacted San Francisco Air Route Traffic Control (ARTC). At 8:07 am Pacific Standard Time, it was cleared to descend in accordance with Visual Flight Rules and to maintain at least on top of clouds, which the crew acknowledged.\n\nAt 8:15 am, the flight reported that it was starting descent and at that time was given the San Francisco weather report. Just after 8:21 am ARTC cleared the flight to the San Francisco instrument landing system (ILS) outer marker beacon via the Half Moon Bay fan marker direct to the San Francisco outer marker, with instructions to maintain at least above all clouds and to contact San Francisco approach control after passing the Half Moon Bay fan marker.\n\nAt 8:39 am, the crew called San Francisco approach control and advised that it was over Half Moon Bay, on top of clouds. Approximately three minutes later, the crew reported \"southeast, turning inbound\". At 8:45 am, a call to the flight was unanswered as were all subsequent calls.\n\nLocal resident George Bordi heard the plane fly overhead in thick fog, then moments later heard the tremendous \"crump\" sound of the plane impacting on nearby terrain.\n\nWilliam Kapell, a New York pianist who was returning from a concert tour in Australia, was among the eleven passengers and eight crewmen losing their lives. Kapell was the only United States citizen in the plane. Most of the others were from Australia, the United Kingdom along with one passenger from Canada.\n\nMany hours after the crash, members of search parties, who had difficulty getting through a dense wood at the base of King's Mountain, said they could find no survivors.\n\nRed Cross volunteers and emergency personnel, including what would become the first forensic investigation team in the United States, recovered bodies and wreckage, used dental records to identify remains, and put out three forest fires started by the crash. The Redwood City Armory was used by the sheriff's department as a makeshift morgue. Except for the body of William Kapell, which was quickly transported by family members back to his home state of New York, bodies were cremated at Cypress Lawn Cemetery in Colma, California and returned to their families. Two did remain in the cemetery, passenger Williaam (sic) Cox in a standard plot, while purser Knight's ashes were placed in a niche in the columbarium at Cypress Lawn.\n\nThe Civil Aeronautics Board investigated the accident. The investigation began immediately after the wreckage was located in the mountainous area southwest of San Francisco, about seven and a half miles southeast of the town of Half Moon Bay. The aircraft was almost entirely destroyed by impact and ensuing fire. It had initially struck the top of several large redwood trees, shearing off one of its landing gear and leaving it hung in an oak. It then continued across a narrow ravine and crashed against the side of a steeply rising slope approximately half a mile beyond the first tree strike. The main wreckage area was at about above sea level.\n\nThe landing gear was down and locked at the time of impact. There was no evidence of mechanical or structural failure prior to the impact.\n\nThe accident site was between the Half Moon Bay Fan Marker and the ILS Outer Marker and it appears the flight had not maintained at least on top of clouds between these points but had descended in weather conditions which precluded reference to the ground.\n\nIn addition, the flight had reported being over the Half Moon Bay Fan Marker at 8:39 am and then \"Southeast, turning inbound\" at about 8:42 am. In this time interval it would not have been possible for the flight at normal speed to have flown from the Half Moon Bay Outer Marker to the ILS Outer Marker, make the required turn and return to the site of the crash in accordance with Civil Aeronautics Authority approved instrument approach procedure. Thus it was likely that when the pilot reported he was \"Southeast, turning inbound\", he was in fact southwest of the airport.\n\nThe investigation then stated it was probable that the captain, after reporting he was over Half Moon Bay, either saw the terrain momentarily through an unreported break in the overcast foggy conditions or because of a radio navigational error became convinced his position was farther northeast and started to descend over what he believed was the proper area.\n\nIt was therefore concluded that the probable cause of the crash was the failure of the crew to follow prescribed procedures for an instrument approach.\n\nToday, the crash site is part of the El Corte de Madera Creek Open Space Preserve, which includes the \"Resolution Trail\", named for the plane. Park rules restrict visitors to the trail and visitors are also requested to respect this historical site by leaving any artifacts where they find them.\n\nOver fifty people attended a plaque's dedication on June 27, 2009, near the junction of the Fir & Vista Point trails, near Vista Point - the site of where a military H-19 'Chickasaw' recovery helicopter landed on the day of the crash.\n\nThe latest remembrance day was the 65th. anniversary of the crash, held on October 29th., 2018. Visiting the plaque that day was the brother of co-pilot Campbell, Alan Campbell, who had flown in from Cairns, Australia. He placed an Australian flag before the granite memorial and made a somber visit to the impact point.\n\n\n", "id": "7720031", "categories": ["British Commonwealth Pacific Airlines accidents and incidents", "1953 in California", "Airliner accidents and incidents in California", "Aviation accidents and incidents in 1953", "Accidents and incidents involving the Douglas DC-6", "Airliner accidents and incidents involving controlled flight into terrain", "Airliner accidents and incidents caused by pilot error", "San Francisco International Airport"], "title": "BCPA Flight 304"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720036", "text": "Magnus Kahnberg\n\nHåkan Magnus Kahnberg (born 25 February 1980) is a Swedish former professional ice hockey right winger, who most notably played for Frölunda HC in Swedish Hockey League (SHL).\n\nKahnberg is a cousin of fellow Frölunda HC player Nicklas Lasu.\n\nKahnberg was eventually acquired by the St. Louis Blues and played for their American Hockey League affiliate the Peoria Rivermen in 2006 only to return to the Swedish league that same year. On 31 March 2009, Kahnberg signed a two-year contract with Brynäs IF. After two seasons with Brynäs, Kahnberg returned to Frölunda HC for the 2011–12 season.\n", "id": "7720036", "categories": ["1980 births", "Frölunda HC players", "Brynäs IF players", "Living people", "Peoria Rivermen (AHL) players", "Carolina Hurricanes draft picks", "Swedish ice hockey players", "Swedish expatriate sportspeople in the United States"], "title": "Magnus Kahnberg"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720054", "text": "Beaubrun Ardouin\n\nAlexis Beaubrun Ardouin (1796–1865) was a Haitian historian and politician. He is best remembered for his eleven-volume \"Etudes sur l'Histoire d'Haïti\" (\"Studies on the History of Haiti\"), published in the 1850s and 60s. His \"Etudes\" have served as a valuable resource for later historians. Beaubrun Ardouin also wrote the first Haitian textbook, \"Géographie de l'Ile d'Haïti\" (\"Geography of the Island of Haiti\") and \"Instruction sur le Jury\".\n\nArdouin's historical writing attempted to put the Haitian Revolution in the context of other nationalist revolutions in the Americas. He was a man of Euro-African ancestry, from a family that was free before the revolution. He has been criticized by 20th-century scholars for championing free people of color as the leaders both of the revolution and of post-independence Haiti. The historian Thomas Madiou, who sought to repair the reputation of the great black heroes of the Haitian revolution, especially Toussaint Louverture, and to portray the revolution as a successful slave uprising instead of as a national independence movement, is often cited as Ardouin's intellectual opponent. Historian and writer Hénock Trouillot describes the conflict between nineteenth-century Haitian historians in more complex terms in his biography of Ardouin, claiming that Ardouin lacked historical resources to assess the significance of Louverture. Trouillot also describes Ardouin's intense involvement in Haitian politics in the 1840s and his exile to Paris. While in Paris, Ardouin was responsible for editing and publishing Emeric Bergeaud's novel \"Stella\" with Dentu in 1859, one year after Bergeaud's death. The novel is widely known as Haiti's first and portrays the Haitian Revolution as a movement demonstrating the unity of Haitian citizens and the importance of the formation of Haiti as an antislavery state.\n\nBeaubrun Ardouin was elected Senator in 1832 and served on the Council of Secretaries of State in 1845.\n\nGrowing up during the revolutionary period, Beaubrun Ardouin was not able to attend school regularly; he was self-taught. He had a strong interest in French literature, especially the works of Voltaire, Montesquieu, and Jean-Jacques Rousseau.\n\nArdouin's brothers, Céligny and Coriolan, were also well-known; Céligny as a politician and historian, Coriolan as a poet. The three Ardouin brothers, along with the Nau brothers, Emile and Ignace, were members of the literary society \"The School of 1836,\" which was founded by Ignace Nau. Coriolan died young in 1836, while Céligny ran afoul of Faustin-Élie Soulouque's government and was executed in 1849. Beaubrun published Céligny's \"Essais sur l'Histoire d'Haïti\" (English: \"Essays on the History of Haiti\") in 1865, just before his own death.\n", "id": "7720054", "categories": ["Haitian male writers", "1796 births", "Haitian historians", "1865 deaths", "Presidents of the Senate (Haiti)"], "title": "Beaubrun Ardouin"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720055", "text": "St. Michael's Church, Old Town, Chicago\n\nSt. Michael's Church in the Old Town neighborhood of Chicago is a Roman Catholic church staffed by the Redemptorist order of priests. The parish was founded to minister to German Catholic immigrants in 1852 with its first wooden church completed that year at a cost of $750 (including the bell). The building stands at the intersection of Eugenie Street and Cleveland Avenue. The church was built as a haven for German immigrants who were outcasts in Old Chicago. In addition, the town's main church, St. Joseph's Church, was overcrowded. The Redemptorists were invited to administer the parish in 1860 and a large brick church was finished in 1869. When completed, its tower made it the tallest building in Chicago and the United States, a distinction it held until the old Chicago Board of Trade Building was completed in 1885.\n\nThe church was one of seven buildings to 'survive' the path of the Great Chicago Fire of 1871, albeit heavily damaged. While most of Old Chicago's infrastructure was made of wood, the church was made of brick which helped it survive the fire. Portions of the building survived—the stone walls of St. Michael's being the only structures standing in the Old Town area. The church was quickly rebuilt.\n\nThere is a saying in Chicago that if you can hear the bells of St. Michael's, you are in Old Town.\nWhen Mayor Richard J. Daley's urban renewal program began, it was the Old Town Triangle Organization of the Lincoln Park Conservation Association that took the lead in promoting urban renewal. St. Michael's like many other neighborhood institutions took advantage of the program to rehab and to expand.\n", "id": "7720055", "categories": ["German-American culture in Chicago", "Roman Catholic churches in Chicago", "Churches in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Chicago"], "title": "St. Michael's Church, Old Town, Chicago"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720061", "text": "Booker T. Washington High School (Shreveport, Louisiana)\n\nBooker T. Washington New Technology High School in Shreveport, Louisiana, is a high school named after the educational pioneer Booker T. Washington.\n\nIn 1945, educational facilities for blacks were reported to have been in \"deplorable\" condition. Construction of a new high school was proposed as a solution to the matter. Enrollments were overcrowded at Central Colored High School and the Milam Street Trade School. Booker T. Washington High School was born at a site across from the trade school. Completed in 1949, it was named for the founder of Tuskegee Institute in Tuskegee, Alabama. In 2015, Booker T. Washington was listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe Milam Street Trade School became a junior high school when Booker T. Washington High School opened on January 23, 1950.\n\nBooker T. Washington High School was considered a model school for blacks. In the October 1950 issue of \"Life\" magazine, the school was highlighted for its innovative architecture, accommodations for traditional academics, and career, technical, and industrial education programs. Built at a cost of $1,514,065 for the physical plant and $500,000 for equipment, Booker T. Washington became one of the most modern schools in Louisiana, having individual lockers for all students, central heating, movable desks, modern laboratories, administrative offices, asphalt tile floors, and fluorescent lighting. A massive renovation took place in 1991; another remodeling to facilities occurred in July 2014 after a fire damaged the main wing. An additional 3,000 capacity gymnasium complete with health classrooms, a laundry area, as well as dressing rooms for both the home and opposing teams was completed in the fall of 2006.\n\nThe girls basketball team became in 1989 the first in northwestern Louisiana to win a state championship. The team would repeatedly win Class 4A championships in 1990 and again in 1991. The men's basketball team won its first LHSAA Class 4A championship in 1973.\n\nThe school hosted coaches such as Leonard \"Jitterbug\" Barnes and George T. Brown, and continues to be prominent in both athletics and academics.\n\nTraditions at Booker T. Washington High School include the annual Soul Bowl, featuring the Booker T. Washington High School Lions and the Green Oaks Giants; and baccalaureate services for graduating seniors.\n\nThe initial curriculum offered basic high school/college prep academic courses in English, literature, music, social science, health, general science, biology, algebra, geometry, chemistry, and physical education, as well as numerous vocational courses to supplement the work at the Milam Street Trade School. New vocational courses included commercial baking, laundry and dry cleaning processes, typing, shorthand and bookkeeping, auto mechanics (including machine body and fender repair), masonry and cement work, graphic arts, carpentry, electrical name mechanics, sheet metal working, pottery and clay, landscape gardening and hot-house horticulture, leather-craft, home laundry, cooking, sewing, needle-craft, shoe-craft, and beauty culture (later cosmetology).\n\nIn the fall of 2011, Booker T. Washington added seventh and eighth grades to its original 9–12 configuration. Seventh and eighth grades are no longer part of the configuration as of 2017, when Fair Park High School became a middle school, merging its 9-12 population with Booker T. Washington. Enrollment now tops 1,100 students.\n\nThe school incorporates an intensive technology focus into the core subjects of math, science, English/language arts and social studies, through the use of grant funded laboratories and technology. Teachers currently participate in the Teacher Advancement Program Model.\n\nBy the spring of 2013, Booker T. Washington High School had made enough academic progress to be removed from the state \"Academically Unacceptable\" list on which it had been included for the preceding seven years. The school currently offers three magnet programs to eligible students in Caddo Parish: telecommunications, barbering, and cosmetology.\n\nBooker T. Washington High School is currently accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, which is recognized as a regional accrediting agency by the United States Department of Education. Booker T. Washington first gained accreditation in 1961 and will be up for renewal in 2019.\n\nStudents at Booker T. Washington participate in the following athletic programs. The men and women's basketball, football, and track and field teams have a constant showing in the LHSAA Class 4A (Class 3A prior to 2017) State Playoffs.\n\n\n\nBooker T. Washington High School partners with Southern University at Shreveport to provide eleventh and twelfth grade students the opportunity to earn college credit in general education courses (English, math, social sciences, and natural sciences) while earning credit towards their high school diplomas.\n\n\nWords by Mr. Blanchard K. Bell (1950)\n\nThe Booker T. Washington High School of Shreveport Alma Mater has two verses. The first verse is the most popular – sung at athletic functions and other informal events pertaining to the school. The second verse signifies the lengthier version of the BTWHS Alma Mater. The second verse is rarely heard – only at formal ceremonies such as commencement and baccalaureate services.\n\nFirst verse:\n\n\"O, Booker T Washington High School, we'll always honor and cherish thee. O, Booker T. Washington High School we'll sing thy praises eternally. Our colors maroon and white boldly fly, roar lion our brave mascot, keep spirits high. O, Booker T. Washington High School, we pledge our hearts to thee.\"\n\nSecond verse:\n\n\"O, Booker T. Washington High School, we'll praise thee ever as years go by. O, Booker T. Washington High School, we'll hold thy precepts both far and high. Through downfall or victory our voices raise. O, Booker T. Washington High School, to thee our loyalty.\"\n\nThe Booker T. Washington High School fight song is played during athletic events. It is written to the tune of Illinois Loyalty (We're Loyal to You), the fight song of the University of Illinois.\n\nThe Booker T. Washington High School Marching Band is a show-style marching band that participates in many parades, competitions, and other activities. The band uses a high-step marching style that is common among bands of its genre.\n\nThe BTW Marching Band has performed for the Shreveport-Bossier Mavericks and were featured on ESPN during halftime. The \"Golden Elegance\" dance line and \"Lionettes\" Majorettes accompany the marching band as auxiliaries.\n\nMost recent accomplishments of the Booker T. Washington High School Marching Band include the following:\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7720061", "categories": ["High schools in Shreveport, Louisiana", "School buildings on the National Register of Historic Places in Louisiana", "Historically segregated African-American schools in Louisiana"], "title": "Booker T. Washington High School (Shreveport, Louisiana)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720067", "text": "Peta Doodson\n\nPeta Doodson (6 November 1955) is an Australian television actress. She is probably best known for playing the hardline Inspector Monica Draper in the police drama series \"Blue Heelers\".\n\nDoodson was born in Melbourne in 1955. Her mother was a nurse and her father was an air traffic controller. She began working as a registered nurse in 1972 and then completed a Bachelor of Arts degree in musical theatre.\n\nShe was also the medical adviser on \"Blue Heelers\". Her last appearance on \"Blue Heelers\" was in the finale in early 2006.\n\nShe has also made appearances in \"Neighbours\" and many other television dramas.\n", "id": "7720067", "categories": ["1955 births", "Australian television actresses"], "title": "Peta Doodson"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720076", "text": "Landsmanschaft\n\nLandsmanschaft could refer to:\n\n", "id": "7720076", "categories": [], "title": "Landsmanschaft"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720084", "text": "USS Phantom (AM-273)\n\nUSS \"Phantom\" (AM-273) was an Admirable-class minesweeper built for the U.S. Navy during World War II. She was built to clear minefields in offshore waters, and served the Navy in the Atlantic Ocean and then was transferred to the North Pacific Ocean where she was transferred to the Chinese Navy as part of the lend lease program. Her American crew members returned home with the satisfaction that they had won three battle stars during the war.\n\n\"Phantom\" was laid down by the Gulf Shipbuilding Co., Chickasaw, Alabama, 1 February 1943, launched 25 July 1943 and commissioned 17 May 1944, Lt. Lawrence Dana, USNR, in command.\n\nAfter shakedown she reported to ComServLant for duty 8 July 1944, and operated out of Norfolk, Virginia, on minesweeping and escort duties along the U.S. East Coast and off Bermuda for the balance of the year. In January 1945 she arrived off McNabs Island Nova Scotia, escorting USS Pontiac (AF-20) then stood by as Pontiac was beached in a sinking condition.\n\nAfter further operations along the east coast from Boston, Massachusetts, to Jacksonville, Florida, she transited the Panama Canal 9 April 1945, and reached Pearl Harbor 4 May. Continuing on, she arrived at Okinawa 26 June and for the rest of the war swept mines off that hard-fought for island.\n\nIn September she moved to Japan for minesweeping operations and in December shifted to the waters off the China coast. In January 1946 she got underway for the United States, arrived at San Diego, California, 18 February and in July headed west again. On 14 September she arrived at Subic Bay and reported for inactivation.\n\nDecommissioning 10 October 1946, she was kept in reserve until transferred to the Nationalist Chinese Navy 15 June 1948. Struck from the U.S. Navy List 13 July 1948, she served as \"Yung Ming\" until October 1949 when she was decommissioned and struck from the Nationalist Chinese Navy List. In July 1951 her hulk was sold for scrap.\n\n\"Phantom\" earned 3 battle stars for World War II service.\n\n", "id": "7720084", "categories": ["Ships built in Chickasaw, Alabama", "Admirable-class minesweepers", "1943 ships", "World War II minesweepers of the United States"], "title": "USS Phantom (AM-273)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720085", "text": "Al-Mina\n\nAl-Mina (Arabic: \"the port\") is the modern name given by Leonard Woolley to an ancient trading post on the Mediterranean coast of northern Syria, in the estuary of the Orontes River, near Samandağ, in Hatay Province of Turkey.\n\nThe site was excavated in 1936 by Leonard Woolley, who considered it to be an early Greek trading colony, founded a little before 800 BC, in direct competition with the Phoenicians to the south. He argued that substantial amounts of Greek pottery at the site established its early Euboean connections, while the Syrian and Phoenician cooking pottery reflected a cultural mix typical of an emporium. Disappointed in not finding a Bronze Age port, Woolley soon moved his interests to the earlier, more urbane site of Alalakh.\n\nWoolley's critics point out that he discarded coarse undecorated utilitarian wares, and that the relative numbers of Greek, Syrian and Phoenician populations have not been established. The controversy whether Al Mina is to be regarded as a native Syrian site, with Syrian architecture and cooking pots and a Greek presence, or as an Iron Age Greek trading post, has not been resolved.\n\nAl-Mina has been largely overlooked in popular surveys. Later work considered Al-Mina as key to understanding the role of early Greeks in the east at the outset of the Orientalizing period of Greek cultural history.\n\nWoolley identified Al-Mina with Herodotus' Posideion, but more recent scholarship places Posideion at Ras al-Bassit. Robin Lane Fox has made a case for the Greek name of the site to have been the Potamoi Karon that is mentioned in Diodorus Siculus' account of Ptolemy I Soter's ravaging of the coastline in 312 BC; he notes its unusual word order and suggestively links it to \"karu\", \"trading post\", in the inscription text of Tiglath-Pileser III's conquests, which would give \"River(s) of the Trading Posts\". Woolley, on separate grounds, dated the final extinction of the Al-Mina settlement to the late fourth century BC, perhaps damaged during construction of the port of Seleucia Pieria just to the north. Lane Fox suggests instead this same voyage of coastal destruction was undertaken by Ptolemy in 312 BC.\n\nAl-Mina served as an outpost for cultural influences that accompanied trade with Urartu and the shortest caravan route to Assyrian cities of upper Mesopotamia. Through Al-Mina and Greek traders in Cyprus the Phoenician alphabet and other technology were transmitted to Euboea and mainland Greece in the eighth century BC. Al-Mina was destroyed about 700 BC, perhaps by Sennacherib, who repressed a rebellion at Tarsos in 696 BC, but it was immediately rebuilt. Pottery recovered from later levels of the site shows that a Greek presence remained at Al-Mina through to the fourth century BC, with pottery imported from Miletus and deftly imitated locally, apparently by Greek potters.\n\n\n", "id": "7720085", "categories": ["Populated places established in the 9th century BC", "Iron Age Greek colonies", "Euboean colonies", "Former populated places in Turkey"], "title": "Al-Mina"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720089", "text": "Bet That\n\n\"Bet That\" is the first single from Trick Daddy's seventh studio album \"Back by Thug Demand\". The song was released in October 2006. It features Chamillionaire and Gold Ru$h. The song was produced by The Runners; who has produced for various artists including Rick Ross. It premiered on BET's 106 & Park where it was the New Joint of the day on October 30, 2006. The song peaked at No. 66 on the \"Billboard\" Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. The remix features Ja Rule.\n", "id": "7720089", "categories": ["2006 songs", "Chamillionaire songs", "Songs written by Trick Daddy", "Songs written by Chamillionaire", "2006 singles", "Music videos directed by Shane Drake", "Songs written by Jermaine Jackson (hip hop producer)", "Atlantic Records singles", "Trick Daddy songs", "Song recordings produced by The Runners", "Songs written by Andrew Harr"], "title": "Bet That"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720130", "text": "USS Harold E. Holt\n\nUSS \"Harold E. Holt\" (FF-1074) was a of the United States Navy. She was named for Harold Holt, the Prime Minister of Australia, who had disappeared while swimming in December 1967. The ex-\"Harold E. Holt\" hulk was sunk as a target during RIMPAC 2002.\nThe \"Knox\" class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\n\"Harold E. Holt\" was built by Todd Shipyards, Los Angeles Division, San Pedro, California, laid down on 11 May 1968, launched on 3 May 1969 and delivered on 19 March 1971. \"Harold E. Holt\" was commissioned 26 March 1971, decommissioned 2 July 1992 and struck 11 January 1995.\nAlthough not scheduled for deployment so soon after commissioning, \"Harold E. Holt\" was sent to the Gulf of Tonkin on short notice soon after the North Vietnamese Easter Offensive began in the spring of 1972. During deployment, she served as PIRAZ escort and provided gunfire support near Quang Tri. She came under fire a number of times from shore batteries and sustained one mine hit with minor damage. She returned to Long Beach in late November 1972, and was later awarded a Meritorious Unit Commendation for this deployment.\n\nIn May 1975, \"Harold E. Holt\" was involved in the \"Mayaguez\" incident. During the recapture of the container ship \"Mayaguez\", Marines crossing from \"Harold E. Holt\" conducted the first hostile ship-to-ship boarding by the U.S. Navy since 1826.\n\nOn 10 July 2002, \"Harold E. Holt\" was sunk as a target ship as part of the RIMPAC training exercises.\n\n\n", "id": "7720130", "categories": ["Ships built in Los Angeles", "1969 ships", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Harold E. Holt"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720131", "text": "Faustus (cat)\n\nFaustus is a fictional character who appeared in stories published by Charlton Comics. Faustus first appeared in \"Captain Atom\" Vol. 2, #89 (December 1967). The character was created by writer Dave Kaler and artist Steve Ditko.\n\nFaustus is a black cat from Earth \"somewhere in the far future\". He journeys to the 20th century alongside a nameless federal agent from the future masquerading as a supervillain known as 13 in order to prevent an experimental missile falling into the hands of The Ghost, an enemy of the superhero Captain Atom. After their mission is completed, Faustus and 13 return to the future.\n\nFaustus has the ability to teleport and to manifest various weapons (ropes, umbrellas, sound bubbles) seemingly out of nowhere and as if by magic. Faustus appears to bring bad luck to individual humans who he turns his attention to.\n", "id": "7720131", "categories": ["Characters created by Steve Ditko", "Comics characters introduced in 1967", "Fictional cats", "Fictional characters who can teleport", "Charlton Comics characters"], "title": "Faustus (cat)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720132", "text": "Hollywood (Flavor Flav album)\n\nThis is the self-titled debut solo album by hip-hop artist Flavor Flav. It is the only non-Public Enemy album made by him. The album was in production for at least seven years with the oldest track being \"Hot 1\", first released as a single in 1999. The only guest appearance is from Smooth B of Nice & Smooth. Ol' Dirty Bastard, The Beatnuts and Ce Ce Peniston had been slated to appear on the album, but did not make the cut. This album is sometimes mistakenly referred to as \"Hollywood\" due to the image of the sign on the front of the album but it is self-titled.\n\nThe songs \"Flavor Man\" and \"Col-Leepin\" later appeared on Public Enemy's 2007 album \"How You Sell Soul To A Soulless People Who Sold Their Soul?\".\n\nThe album reached No. 44 on the \"Billboard\" Top Heatseekers chart and No. 80 on the \"Billboard\" Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart.\n\n\n", "id": "7720132", "categories": ["Flavor Flav albums"], "title": "Hollywood (Flavor Flav album)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720133", "text": "Fools for Love\n\n\"Fools for Love\" is the fifth episode of the third season of \"House\" and the fifty-first episode overall.\n\nA young interracial couple is hospitalized after the husband, Jeremy, attacks robbers who threaten his wife, Tracy. Her airway closes and she collapses, apparently experiencing anaphylaxis. Dr. House, however, is distracted by the sight of Dr. Wilson chatting to an attractive new nurse, Wendy, in the hallway; House is convinced that Wilson is dating her.\n\nChase suggests that Tracy and Jeremy have smoked marijuana tainted with salmonella, so House orders treatment with fluoroquinolone antibiotic. Tracy develops a rash in response to this antibiotic, so House extrapolates that the anxiety of being attacked caused Tracy to secrete too much adrenaline and go into an exercise-triggered anaphylaxis. While Foreman tests this hypothesis by having her run on a treadmill, Jeremy becomes angry and begins experiencing chest and stomach pain. The team wonders whether to attribute their common stomach pain to a shared infection or a shared environment. Upon inspecting their small apartment, Chase and Foreman find only a package of condoms.\n\nMeanwhile, House sees a patient named Michael Tritter during his clinic hours. When House refuses to run tests on Tritter's rash, attributing it to dehydration, a confrontation ensues. Tritter trips House, House swabs the rash, and House leaves Tritter with a thermometer inserted in his rectum while House leaves for the day.\n\nWhile discussing Tracy and Jeremy's case, House breaks into Wendy's locker and guesses that a jazz festival flier in a locker full of novels means that she is indulging Wilson's interest in jazz. He bets Foreman $200 that the nurse and Wilson are in a relationship.\n\nHouse takes Tracy off the steroids, reasoning that, if she develops a fever, the problem is an infection and that, if she doesn't, the problem is environmental. Tracy experiences a hallucination of Jeremy's late father, who was violently opposed to their relationship; she screams. Foreman arrives to find her lapsing into a dissociative coma. After comparing Tracy's MRI to Jeremy's earlier chest X-ray, House suspects sarcoidosis and tells the team to perform a brainstem biopsy for confirmation. Concerned about the procedure's risks to Tracy and the potential conflict of interest in asking Jeremy to consent on her behalf, Cameron asks Cuddy to have a guardian ad litem represent Tracy. Tracy's condition worsens too quickly so Wilson is asked to present Jeremy with the options. Jeremy requests that they withdraw his treatment so that they can biopsy him, instead.\n\nCuddy calls House to her office, where clinic patient Michael Tritter (David Morse) is waiting. Tritter demands an apology from House, but House flatly refuses and leaves the office.\n\nMeanwhile, Jeremy's condition has worsened; but, instead of brain swelling, his lactic acid levels are rising, which should mean his intestines have begun to rot. House speculates that he and Tracy do not share the same disease, after all. He orders that Tracy be treated for porphyria and that Jeremy's bowel be biopsied. Foreman discovers that Jeremy's bowels are not rotting at all. House learns that Jeremy and Tracy grew up as neighbors and ran off at age 16 to escape Jeremy's father and his opposition to the relationship. House muses on Tracy's and Jeremy's green eyes and realizes that they share hereditary angioedema, a rare hereditary condition that prevents their bodies from producing a vital protein, and that they are probably half-siblings. House orders Foreman to tell them. Reluctantly, Foreman does so. Tracy reacts badly.\n\nLater, Chase (Jesse Spencer) asks Foreman (Omar Epps) to cover some of his weekend on-call hours; but Foreman refuses, saying evasively that he is going out of town. When Foreman admits he is going to a jazz festival with the new nurse, House reluctantly pays him the $200. As Foreman leaves, he sees that Tracy has moved out of the hospital room she shared with Jeremy, so Foreman stays with the devastated young man for a while. Meanwhile, Cuddy is observed with a pregnancy test, which, to her dismay, reads negative.\n\nHouse speeds home on his motorcycle. He is pulled over by a police officer who turns out to be Michael Tritter. Tritter arrests him for possession of narcotics.\n\nAfter stopping House for speeding, officer Tritter reasons that House is under the influence of narcotics, based on his observation that House's pupils are dilated. House, however, uses Vicodin, a hydrocodone-containing drug which, if anything, would cause pupillary constriction (miosis).\n\n\n", "id": "7720133", "categories": ["2006 American television episodes", "House (season 3) episodes"], "title": "Fools for Love"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720140", "text": "USS Albert Gallatin (1871)\n\nAlbert Gallatin was a U.S. Revenue Cutter that grounded on Boo Hoo Ledge off Manchester, MA on 6 January 1892.\n\nNamed after President Thomas Jefferson's Secretary of the Treasury, the \"Albert Gallatin\" was built in Buffalo, New York in 1871 at a cost of $65,000. She was armed with a , brass Whitworth carriage gun, mounted in a broadside and sported an iron hull and mahogany decks. The initial propulsion was a horizontal, direct-acting steam engine with a Fowler steering propeller which was removed in 1874.\n\n\"Albert Gallatin\" was ported in Boston Harbor and patrolled from Portsmouth, NH to Holmes Hole, MA. Captain Gabrielson also skippered the Revenue Cutter \"Dexter\" when it came to the aid of \"City of Columbus\" which wrecked off Martha's Vineyard.\n\nIn the morning of 6 January 1892, Capt. Gabrielson was attempting to make the safety of Gloucester Harbor during a snowstorm and became disoriented. The cutter hit Boo Hoo Ledge hard. While trying to free the ship of the ledge the ship flooded and the smokestack fell onto the ship, killing the ship's carpenter, Mr. J. Jacobson. The other 39 members of the crew were rescued. At the time of her sinking, Gallatin was armed with two 20-pound Dahlgren guns on Marsilly carriages. In small arms, she had new Lee magazine rifles and other pistols cited in \"Barnstable (MA) Patriot\", 12 January 1892. The current coordinates of \"Albert Gallatin\" are , at a depth of around .\n\n", "id": "7720140", "categories": ["Sailing ships of the United States", "Cutters of the United States Navy", "Ships built in New York (state)", "Shipwrecks of the Massachusetts coast", "1871 ships", "Steamships of the United States Navy"], "title": "USS Albert Gallatin (1871)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720162", "text": "USS Gray\n\nUSS \"Gray\" (FF-1054) was a United States Navy . She was named for Marine Corps Sergeant Ross F. Gray, who was a posthumous recipient of the Medal of Honor.\n\nThe \"Knox\" class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\n\"Gray\" carried the AN/SLQ-32 Electronic Warfare Suite. For anti-submarine work, she carried AN/SQS-26 Sonar and the AN/SQR-18 Towed array sonars. The ship also carried the AN/SPS-40 Air Search Radar and the AN/SPS-67 Surface Search Radar.\n\n\"Gray\" was constructed by Todd Pacific Shipyards, Seattle, Washington, laid down 19 November 1966, launched 3 November 1967 and delivered 27 March 1970. \"Gray\" was commissioned 4 April 1970, reclassified from a destroyer escort as a Frigate 30 June 1975. \"Gray\" was the third of the 46 \"Knox\"-class frigates built.\n\n\"Gray\" served in the Surface Force of the United States Pacific Fleet. She made numerous deployments to the Western Pacific and Indian Oceans, including in support of United States Naval operations during the Vietnam War. In the early 1980s her home port was San Diego, California. In 1982 she was reassigned to the reserve fleet in Long Beach, California. In later years her home port was Naval Station Treasure Island, in San Francisco. She was decommissioned 29 June 1991, struck 11 January 1995 and scrapped 21 July 2001.\n\n\"Gray\"s commanding officers were:\n\n\n", "id": "7720162", "categories": ["Knox-class frigates", "Ships built in Seattle", "Cold War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States"], "title": "USS Gray"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720166", "text": "Dead End Run\n\nDead End Run is a 2003 film directed by Japanese cult film director Sogo Ishii, notable for Ishii's trademark flashy visual style.\n\nThe film has little plot to speak of, but is instead divided into three short episodes, each of which opens with a man desperately running away before being trapped in a dead end, where something out-of-the-ordinary occurs. The episodes include a musical number, a Mexican stand-off and a police pursuit.\n\nThe first episode begins with an extended scene showing a man desperately running through an urban landscape, before coming to a dead end in a dark backstreet ally. When he hears approaching footsteps, he attacks his presumed pursuer with a metal bar. He is shocked to find that he has instead killed a young woman.\n\nHowever, the woman comes back to life, and sings and dances with the man in the style of a musical film, telling him how they were fated to meet and how tragic it is that their love has to be so short. Once again she dies, and while the man grieves over her body, his pursuer appears and shoots him. The man's and woman's bodies lie next to each other on the tarmac.\n\nThe second episode also begins with a fleeing man who gets trapped in a dead end, where he becomes involved in a protracted Mexican stand-off with another man. The scene is intercut with a similar stand-off involving two different armed men in the same location. Both stand-offs end with the two protagonists laughing at their predicament and entering a friendly embrace, before trying to shoot the other man. All the men receive gunshot wounds and die, their bodies falling in positions similar to the couple in the first episode of the film.\n\nThe third episode starts with three police officers chasing a suspect. The suspect flees to the top of a tall building, where a young woman is sitting. The edge of the roof is, in effect, a dead end. The suspect takes the woman hostage. After a stand-off, she manages to take the suspect's gun, and to everyone's surprise points it at her own head, threatening suicide. When the suspect tries to knock the gun out of her hand, they fall together from the roof. Although they expect to die, they actually land in a lorry carrying a cargo of feathers. The episode ends with the couple lying together in a similar physical position to the couples in the previous episodes, except that this time both characters are still alive.\n", "id": "7720166", "categories": ["Japanese films", "2003 films", "Films directed by Sōgo Ishii", "Japanese-language films"], "title": "Dead End Run"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720170", "text": "Thomas Hoyne\n\nThomas Hoyne (February 11, 1817July 27, 1883) was elected Mayor of Chicago in 1875, but his election was later declared null and void by a Circuit Court. Prior to 1875, Hoyne had led a political career in which he had occupied numerous state and municipal offices.\n\nHoyne moved to Chicago in 1837, where he turned his back on the mercantile life he had been leading and studied law, being admitted to the bar in 1839. He was elected Chicago city clerk in 1840. In 1853, he was appointed United States District Attorney for Illinois. Six years later, he became a US Marshal for the northern district of Illinois.\n\nIn 1863, Hoyne traveled to New York and then to Boston to acquire a lens for a telescope for the University of Chicago. In Boston, he met with Alvan Clark and purchased an 18½-inch lens and mounting for the Dearborn Observatory, at the time, the largest refracting telescope ever built. By 1866, he became one of the founding members of the Chicago Astronomical Society and served as the organization's secretary.\n\nFollowing the Great Chicago Fire of 1871, Hoyne presided at the meeting that established a free library in Chicago and sat upon its board of directors, eventually writing the first history of the Chicago library system.\n\nIn 1875, the city of Chicago adopted the Cities and Villages Act of 1872, which called for municipal elections to be held in April, instead of November. Harvey Doolittle Colvin, the current mayor, was informed by his attorneys that his term should be considered extended to the new elections. While the charter did not explicitly extend his term, it also failed to include the office of mayor in a call for special elections to fill the period from November to May.\n\nIn April 1876 there was an election and neither the Republicans nor the Democrats nominated anyone for mayor. Running as an independent, Hoyne received 33,064 of the 40,000 votes cast for mayor and was declared the Mayor of Chicago.\n\nColvin, however, refused to relinquish the office and was supported by the city comptroller. Although Hoyne presided over council meetings and gave an inaugural address, the Circuit Court declared his election null and void. Colvin continued to serve until the courts called for a special election on July 12, 1876.\n\nHoyne was killed in a July 27, 1883 railroad collision on the Rome, Watertown and Ogdensburg railroad near Carlton Station Hoyne was buried in Carlton Station.\n\nHoyne Avenue in Chicago is named in his honor.\n\nOn September 17, 1840 he wed Leonora Temple.\n\nHoyne's younger brother Philip Augustus Hoyne served as Clerk of the Recorder's Court of Chicago and (from 1853 until 1858) United States Commissioner for the District of Illinois. He also served on the City's Board of Education, serving two consecutive terms as its president.\n\n", "id": "7720170", "categories": ["Illinois lawyers", "1883 deaths", "Mayors of Chicago", "1817 births", "Politicians from New York City"], "title": "Thomas Hoyne"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720173", "text": "Chuck Larson\n\nCharles W. 'Chuck' Larson Jr. (born April 1, 1968, in Newton, Iowa) is the former Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the US to the Republic of Latvia from Iowa. Prior to his appointment, Ambassador Larson was the Iowa State Senator from the 19th District from 2003–2007, was a member of the Iowa House of Representatives from 1993-2001, and is a former chairman of the Republican Party of Iowa. He was succeeded in the Iowa Senate by Democrat Rob Hogg.\n\nDuring his most recent term of office, Larson served on several committees in the Iowa Senate – the Commerce committee; the Education committee; the Judiciary committee; the Ways and Means committee; and the Ethics committee, where he was co-chair. In 2003, President George W. Bush appointed Larson to the President's Advisory Commission for Drug Free Communities, on which he continues to serve.\n\nOn November 30, 2007, the White House announced that Larson would be nominated to become Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the US to the Republic of Latvia in 2008, replacing Catherine Todd Bailey.\n\nIn May 2008, Latvian President Valdis Zatlers awarded Ambassador Larson the Order of the Three Stars, which is Latvia's highest award for his service to the country.\n\nIn June 2009, President Barack Obama announced he was nominating Judith Gail Garber to replace Larson as U.S. Ambassador to Latvia.\n\nChuck served on the Pearl Mutual Fund board of directors from 2006 until his appointment. He prosecuted as an assistant county attorney in Jones County, Iowa from 1997 to 1999. He was then named General Counsel for the ESCO Group, a Marion, Iowa, technology services firm with more than 250 employees. He served in this capacity until 2006. He was also chairman of the Republican Party of Iowa from 2001 to 2005 and served on U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential kitchen cabinet.\n\nAmbassador Larson is one of the founding partners of Larson Shannahan and Slifka group (LS2group), a bipartisan public affairs firm in Des Moines, IA, whose projects range from local to international covering a diverse groups of sectors.\n\nAmbassador Larson is a 1992 graduate of the University of Iowa, where he received his Bachelor of Arts degree in economics. He graduated with honors and distinction and is a member of the Phi Beta Kappa Society honors society. In 1996, Ambassador Larson received his Juris Doctorate degree with distinction from the University College of Law.\n\nAmbassador Larson served as a major in the U.S. Army Reserves spending a year in Iraq during Operation Iraqi Freedom and was awarded a Bronze Star Medal for meritorious service in combat and the Combat Action Badge.\n\nIn January 2008, Ambassador Larson's book \"Heroes Among Us,\" was released by Penguin Publishing, profiling 29 heroes from the War on Terrorism.\n\n", "id": "7720173", "categories": ["1968 births", "People from Fremont County, Iowa", "Ambassadors of the United States to Latvia", "People from Newton, Iowa", "Iowa lawyers", "Iowa Republicans", "Living people", "Iowa state senators"], "title": "Chuck Larson"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720181", "text": "J. Adams\n\nJ. Adams may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7720181", "categories": [], "title": "J. Adams"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720183", "text": "Kooper Session\n\nKooper Session is the second-in-line of the \"Super Session\" albums featuring singer-songwriter Al Kooper. Joining Kooper in the guitar slot is 15-year-old phenomenon Shuggie Otis, son of legendary rhythm and blues pioneer Johnny Otis.\n\nDivided into two halves, \"The Songs\" (a quartet of arranged gospel and rhythm and blues tracks) and \"The Blues\" (a trio of improvised blues tracks), the album, like \"Super Session\" before it, was quickly recorded and featured short, succinct tracks (\"Double or Nothing\", \"One Room Country Shack\") and fluid, drawn out jams highlighting the talents of the artists (\"12:15 Slow Goonbash Blues\", \"Bury My Body\").\n\n\n\n", "id": "7720183", "categories": ["Al Kooper albums", "1970 albums", "Columbia Records albums", "Shuggie Otis albums", "Collaborative albums"], "title": "Kooper Session"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720188", "text": "Benjamin Franklin Bailey\n\nBenjamin Franklin Bailey (August 7, 1875 – after January 8, 1954) was an eminent American electrical engineer.\n\nA native of Sheridan, Michigan, Benjamin Franklin Bailey studied electrical engineering at the University of Michigan and later held the positions of chief engineer of the Fairbanks Morse Electrical Manufacturing Company and Howell Electrical Motor Company, director of Bailey Electrical Company, and vice-president and director of the Fremont Motor Corporation.\n\nHe was the author of several books on electrical engineering, including \"Principles of Dynamo-electric Machinery\" (1915).\n\nHe became professor of electrical engineering at the University of Michigan in 1913 and was department chairman from 1922 until his retirement in 1944. In the 1920s, he invented the capacitor motor.\n\n", "id": "7720188", "categories": ["University of Michigan alumni", "University of Michigan faculty", "American electrical engineers", "1875 births", "20th-century deaths", "People from Montcalm County, Michigan", "American science writers"], "title": "Benjamin Franklin Bailey"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720189", "text": "USS Hepburn\n\nUSS \"Hepburn\" (FF-1055) was a United States Navy named for Arthur Japy Hepburn.\n\nShe was laid down 1 June 1966, by Todd Shipyards, Los Angeles Division, San Pedro, California; and launched 25 March 1967; sponsored by Mrs. Arthur J. Hepburn and Mrs. Lorraine Hepburn Barse. She was delivered 27 June 1969, and commissioned 3 July 1969.\n\nThe \"Knox\" class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\nHepburn was outfitted in 1969 and proceeded for a “shakedown” cruise to San Francisco, Bremerton, WA, Nanaimo and Vancouver, BC and Pearl Harbor, HI. In 1970 she sailed with a contingent of Midshipmen and then a dependents cruise.\nHepburn left for her first WESTPAC in January of 1971 participating in NGFS operations on the coast of Vietnam and plane guarding carriers in the Gulf of Tonkin. Hepburn transited the Sea of Japan and performed operations while being tailed by two Soviet cruisers. She visited Midway, Guam, Subic Bay in the Philippines, Hong Kong and Sasebo and Yokosuka Japan. Hepburn escorted the carrier Ranger back to the States in June 1971. \n\n\"Hepburn\" was an escorting member of the Indian Ocean Task Group of 1976. The task group consisted of the cruiser , frigate and the oiler . The task group sailed from Subic Bay in December 1975. The task group made port calls at Singapore, Karachi, Mombasa, Réunion and Diego Garcia. While transiting from Karachi to the southern Indian Ocean, the group passed through the anchorage area of the Soviet task forces anchored off the island of Socotra. During their time in the Arabian Sea, the task group conducted the first ever acoustical survey of this body of water. The Task group returned to Subic Bay on March 1976.\n\nShe was decommissioned 20 December 1991 and struck 11 January 1995. \"Hepburn\" was sunk as a target on 4 June 2002.\n\n", "id": "7720189", "categories": ["Ships built in Los Angeles", "Knox-class frigates", "1967 ships", "Cold War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States"], "title": "USS Hepburn"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720196", "text": "Tracks (novel)\n\nTracks is a novel by Louise Erdrich, published in 1988. It is the third in a tetralogy of novels beginning with \"Love Medicine\" that explores the interrelated lives of four Anishinaabe families living on an Indian reservation near the fictional town of Argus, North Dakota. Within the saga, \"Tracks\" is earliest chronologically, providing the back-story of several characters such as Lulu Lamartine and Marie Kashpaw who become prominent in the other novels. As in many of her other novels, Erdrich employs the use of multiple first-person narratives to relate the events of the plot, alternating between Nanapush, a tribal patriarch, and Pauline, a young girl of mixed heritage.\n\n\"Tracks\" alternates between two narrators: Nanapush, a jovial tribal elder, and Pauline, a young girl of mixed heritage. In Nanapush's chapters the point of view is that of Nanapush telling stories to his granddaughter, Lulu, several years after the main events in the novel occur. When Lulu was ten years old, her mother, Fleur Pillager, sent her away to a government school. Because of this, Lulu is now estranged from her mother. Nanapush, therefore, narrates the story in attempt to reconcile mother and daughter by telling Lulu about the events between 1912 and 1924 that led Fleur to her decision.\n\nNanapush first meets Fleur in 1912 when he rescues her in the middle of winter and nurses her back to health from consumption – a recent epidemic among the Anishinaabe. Because of their shared grief at losing so many from their community, Nanapush and Fleur develop a friendship and begin to see one another as family. The next year, Fleur goes to the nearby town of Argus and takes a job at a butcher's shop, where she meets Pauline Puyat – the novel's second narrator. After beating a group of men from the shop one night at a game of poker, Fleur is beaten and raped. She leaves town, but the next day a tornado strikes Argus. Mysteriously, no one in town is harmed in the storm with the exception of the men who raped her – whose bodies are found locked in the freezer of the butcher shop, where they had taken refuge.\n\nFleur returns to her family home on the reservation, where she meets Eli Kashpaw while hunting in the woods one day. Much to his mother's dismay, Eli falls in love with Fleur and moves in with her. Soon, Fleur begins to show signs that she is pregnant and, although the true paternity is unknown, Eli takes responsibility of the child as his own. A new family unit begins to form at the Pillager home – Fleur, Eli and their daughter, Lulu, as well as Eli's mother, Margaret, and her second son, Nector. Throughout the novel, Margaret and Nanapush, whom Fleur regards as a father, also develop an intimate relationship. Together, the family faces trials of hunger, tribal conflict, and ultimately the loss of their land to the government.\n\nIn the meantime, Pauline has also left Argus. She stays with a widow named Bernadette Morrissey, from whom she learns the art of tending the sick and dying. She stays in Argus and visits Nanapush and the family home as an unwanted guest. Pauline serves as a midwife to Fleur during an early birth. She becomes increasingly jealous of Fleur and her relationship, and in an attempt to break them up, feeds a sort of love potion to Eli and a younger girl named Sophie, inducing them to copulate passionately in the forest. Claiming to have received a vision, she decides to join a convent, where she only delves further into obsession. She devotes herself to the cause of converting Fleur and the others, but is generally regarded as a nuisance. She develops several unusual habits as a means of self-inflicting suffering to remind herself of Christ's suffering. Her behaviors are frowned upon by the superior nun, and she is eventually sent away to teach mathematics at a Catholic school. Pauline's narratives deal with her own personal story and also provide a second perspective on many of the same events described by Nanapush.\n\nOne major theme in \"Tracks\" is the tension between traditional Anishinaabe culture and beliefs and the Westernizing influence of white, Christian America. This clash can clearly be seen in the two characters of Fleur and Pauline; as Michelle R. Hessler writes, \"Fleur upholds the traditions of her ancestors and attempts to save their land from the rapid advance of white civilization, whereas Pauline enters a cloister, denies her Native American heritage, and brings death and destruction to the reservation.\"\n\nContradictions, lies, and \"double-voiced-ness\" have also been identified as major themes in \"Tracks\" by some critics. As the plot unfolds, the narrator Nanapush is able to use his gift of speech to negotiate with government representatives on behalf of his people, but he often tells contradictory stories and even outright lies. Similarly, Pauline's narrative is unreliable and often contradictory.\n\nSome critics view Nanapush as a reliable narrator. As critic Susan Stanford Friedman argues, \"the novel overtly sets up a contrast between Nanapush as the reliable narrator who retains his Anishinabe religion and the unreliable narrator, the convert Pauline whose self-hatred takes the form of a denial of her Indian heritage and the adoption of a self-destructive Catholicism.\"\n\nNanapush is a critical character in the tension between the Anishinaabe and the whites because of his trickster qualities and ability to navigate both sides of the conflict through talking. Anishinaabe scholar Lawrence W. Gross points out that Nanapush's association with the mythical figure Nanabozho helps him to survive by enabling him to adapt white culture to his own traditions and interests, arguing that \"it is the tricksters who survive to build a new world on the ashes of the old.\" Literary critic Sheila Hassel Hughes further expands on this notion by commenting on Nanapush's duplicitous speech, which, \"like that of the prophet or the trickster, works simultaneously to undermine the power of the privileged oppressor and to appeal for his or her re-alignment on the side of the oppressed.\"\n\nMaria DePriest also points out that, while Fleur is obviously the central character in the book, she does not get to narrate her own story. Fleur must battle two fronts - not only the external conflict of white America that threatens to take away her ancestral land, but also internal betrayals from her own people – but her story is told at a distance by Nanapush and Pauline, both of whom are unreliable narrators.\n\nFleur has been described as \"one of the most haunting presences in contemporary American literature\", and \"Tracks\" is also characterized by the theme of haunting. Fleur is described as having mystical, shamanistic powers and at one point even travels to the spirit world to negotiate for the life of her second child. Several references are made to the manitou (including Misshepeshu, the lake spirit who is said to be a guardian of the Pillager family) and the windigo. For instance, in the first chapter of the novel, Nanapush describes his and Fleur's descent into grief at the loss of so many of their people to consumption, saying, \"We had gone half windigo. I learned later that this was common, that there were many of our people who died in this manner, of the invisible sickness. There were those who could not swallow another bite of food because the names of their dead anchored their tongues.\" Their grief is characterized as a gripping depression, verging on madness. Madness itself is also a motif in the novel – manifesting most notably in the characters of Pauline (with her masochistic self-mortification methods) and Fleur (particularly following the death of her second child). Beidler notes that madness is associated with the characters' emotional distress at the destruction of their environment by the white logging company.\n\n\"Tracks\" is part of a cycle of books all set in the same fictional community and dealing with many of the same characters and families – the Kashpaws, Pillagers, and Morrisseys. Other books in the saga include \"Love Medicine\", \"The Beet Queen\", \"The Bingo Palace\", \"Four Souls\" and \"The Painted Drum\". \"Tales of Burning Love\", which features Sister Leopolda (Pauline), is also loosely related. Erdrich's method of writing these related histories of families from the same community has been compared to William Faulkner and his creation of Yoknapatawpha County.\n\nAfter her success with \"Love Medicine\" and \"The Beet Queen\", Erdrich was unsure of what to write about next. She had a 400-page manuscript that was to be the foundation for \"Tracks\", but regarded it as her \"burden\". With the help of her husband, Michael Dorris, she decided she could use the story to continue the saga of \"Love Medicine\" and \"The Beet Queen\".\n\nThe first edition of \"Tracks\" was published in 1988, but several of its chapters had been published previously as short stories. These include:\n\n\n\"Tracks\" received mixed reviews at the time of its publication, with most critics identifying Erdrich's vivid language and narrative structure as either effective or not.\n\nR.Z. Sheppard criticized Erdrich's use of alternating narratives as too \"schematic\" and forced – and characterized her graphic descriptions as too \"grandiose\". \"Crammed into a short, intense novel\", Sheppard wrote, \"her characters are too busy hauling symbolic freight to reveal their humanity.\" Similarly, \"The New Statesman and Society\" criticized the novel for being too vivid and heavy-handed with language, writing, \"[Erdrich's] linguistic profusion veers toward sentimentalizing a people and their history.\"\n\nIn \"The New York Times Book Review\", Jean Strouse found \"Tracks\" to be \"a bit more didactic and wrought\" than Erdrich's previous novels, and more political as well. She also highlighted concerns over whether or not \"Tracks\" could even be considered a true novel, since four of its nine chapters had been previously published as short stories – including one, \"Snares\", which was controversially published in \"Best American Short Stories\", an anthology that claims it does not admit novel excerpts. Nonetheless, Strouse also praised Erdrich for \"centering on life instead of self\" in the novel, and called \"Tracks\" \"a welcome contrast\" to much of mainstream 1980s fiction.\n\nOther reviewers responded positively to the novel, including Barbara Hoffert, who called it \"splendid\", and wrote that Erdrich's prose is \"as sharp, glittering, and to the point as cut glass.\" Christopher Vecsey, in \"Commonweal\", compared her writing to the magical realism employed by writers such as Gabriel Garcia Marquez, and Andrew Welsh-Huggins placed her in the company of contemporary writers like Anne Tyler, John Updike and Toni Morrison. The reviewer for \"Choice\" compared her writing style to William Faulkner, identified by Erdrich as one of her favorite authors.\n\n", "id": "7720196", "categories": ["Novels by Louise Erdrich", "American magic realism novels", "Anishinaabe peoples", "Native American novels", "Novels set in North Dakota", "1988 American novels"], "title": "Tracks (novel)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720198", "text": "USS Connole\n\nUSS \"Connole\" (FF-1056) was a . Named for Commander David R. Connole, Captain of when the submarine was lost in battle in March 1945.\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\n\"Connole\" was constructed for the United States Navy by Avondale Shipyard, Westwego, Louisiana, laid down 23 March 1967, launched 20 July 1968 and delivered 22 August 1969. She was commissioned 30 August 1969, served as a test bed for some of the Navy's most advanced sonars, decommissioned 30 August 1992 and struck 11 January 1995. \"Connole\" was transferred to Greece as \"Ipiros\" (F456), named after the region of Epirus. The ship was decommissioned by Greece in 2003.\n\n\n", "id": "7720198", "categories": ["Knox-class frigates", "Knox-class frigates of the Hellenic Navy", "1968 ships", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Cold War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States"], "title": "USS Connole"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720200", "text": "Santosham Best Comedian Award\n\nThe Santosham Best Comedian Award is given by the \"Santosham Film\" magazine as part of its annual Santosham Film Awards for Telugu films.\n\nThe award was first given in 2003. Here is a list of the award winners and the films for which they won.\n", "id": "7720200", "categories": [], "title": "Santosham Best Comedian Award"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720204", "text": "USS Rathburne (FF-1057)\n\nUSS \"Rathburne\" (FF-1057) was a of the US Navy. Despite the different spelling, she was named for Continental Navy officer John Rathbun (1746-1782).\n\n\"Rathburne\" was laid down 8 January 1968, by Lockheed Shipbuilding and Construction Company at Seattle, Washington. She was launched on 2 May 1969, sponsored by Mrs. Charles A. Bowsher, and commissioned on 16 May 1970, with Commander Richard B. Evans in command.\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\n\"Rathburne\" arrived at her home port of Pearl Harbor, Hawaii on 20 July 1970, and spent the remainder of that year and the first quarter of the next engaged in weapons systems' testing and various exercises. On 14 April 1971, she departed Pearl Harbor, for a six-month WestPac deployment, returning to Hawaii, on 27 October, for an extended upkeep period. After a short visit to the west coast in May and June 1972, \"Rathburne\" embarked upon her second tour of duty in WestPac 31 July 1972. She ended 1972, and began 1973, in the western Pacific, off the coast of Vietnam, and did not return to Pearl Harbor until 25 February 1973. She remained in the Pearl Harbor area throughout 1973 and was still operating there in January 1974.\n\n\"Rathburne\" was decommissioned on 14 February 1992, and stricken from the Naval Vessel Register on 11 January 1995. She was sunk as a target during fleet training exercise RIMPAC 2002 on 5 July 2002.\n\n\n", "id": "7720204", "categories": ["Ships sunk as targets", "1969 ships", "Knox-class frigates", "Ships built in Seattle", "Cold War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States"], "title": "USS Rathburne (FF-1057)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720211", "text": "USS Meyerkord\n\nUSS \"Meyerkord\" (FF-1058) was a of the US Navy. Named for Lieutenant Harold Dale Meyerkord (1937–1965) a senior naval adviser to South Vietnam who was killed in action during the Vietnam War and received the Navy Cross.\n\n\"Meyerkord\" was constructed by Todd Shipyards, Los Angeles Division, San Pedro, California. She was laid down 1 September 1966, and launched on 15 July 1967, sponsored by Mrs. Harold Dale Meyerkord and Mrs. Harold E. Meyerkord, widow and mother of Lieutenant Meyerkord. \"Meyerkord\" was commissioned on 28 November 1969.\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\nIn September 1970, \"Meyerkord\" participated in her first major exercise, followed by three anti-submarine (ASW) exercises and another major fleet exercise.\nOn 11 March 1971, \"Meyerkord\" departed Long Beach, California on her first Western Pacific (WESTPAC) deployment, as part of Anti-Submarine Warfare Group Three. Upon her entry into the Southeast Asia combat zone on 3 April 1971, \"Meyerkord\" became the first ship named after an American serviceman killed in the Vietnam War to return to act in a supporting role. She participated in an ASW exercise in the Indian Ocean with the ASW group. \"Meyerkord\" returned to Long Beach in July 1971.\n\n\"Meyerkord\" began her second deployment on 25 July 1972. After transiting to Subic Bay, \"Meyerkord\" was independently assigned to Naval Gunfire Support duties. During this seven-month deployment, \"Meyerkord\" acted as a mutual support destroyer in three separate assignments involving gunfire support.\n\nOn 16 October 1973, \"Meyerkord\" began her first regular overhaul in Long Beach. In addition to general maintenance, the ship received several significant alterations. These included modifications to the ship's sonar, the addition of the Basic Point Defense Missile system, and alterations to the hangar to accommodate a manned helicopter (as opposed to the unmanned Gyrodyne QH-50 DASH).\n\n\"Meyerkord\" reported to her new homeport, San Diego, California, in July 1974. On 3 January 1975, \"Meyerkord\" departed San Diego for her third WESTPAC deployment. After arrival at Subic Bay, the ship answered a distress signal from \"Gulf Banker\", a sinking Panamanian registered merchant ship. \"Meyerkord\" rescued 31 ship's crew members and monitored \"Gulf Banker\" until it sank to ensure it would not become a hazard to navigation. \"Meyerkord\" participated in the evacuations of Cambodia and Vietnam as well as fleet towing exercises and a joint exercise with the Royal Thai Navy.\n\"Meyerkord\" returned to San Diego in August 1975 for maintenance and repair. During November 1975, \"Meyerkord\" began an extensive inspection and training cycle in preparation for her next WESTPAC which began 22 May 1976. While deployed, \"Meyerkord\" participated in a number of operations which included special surveillance, anti-submarine warfare exercises, naval gunfire exercises, marine support exercises and carrier task group operations. She also made a number of port visits in support of the Navy's Overseas Diplomacy program. \"Meyerkord\" returned to San Diego on 21 December 1976.\n\nIn 1977, \"Meyerkord\" participated in many fleet exercises and port visits to Portland, Oregon, Seattle, Mexico and Canada.\n\n\"Meyerkord\" returned to Portland, Oregon in January 1978 to undergo a $13 million, 14-month overhaul which was finished in February 1979. In May 1979, \"Meyerkord\" visited the Puget Sound area and participated in the annual Sea Fair.\n\n\"Meyerkord\" commenced her fourth WESTPAC in February 1980 with RIMPAC '80. During this deployment, \"Meyerkord\" visited Guam, Japan and the Philippines. \"Meyerkord\" participated in a search and rescue operation involving a merchant ship and completed the WESTPAC by participating in operation \"Dakota Run\" in the Sea of Okhotsk with and . \"Meyerkord\" collided with \"Sensho Maru\" in dense fog off Matsuyama Japan in July 1980. Repairs to \"Meyerkord\" cost $115,000 and the ship was in port at Yokosuka from 13 July to 5 August 1980 for repairs.\n\"Meyerkord\" deployed in October 1981 on her fifth WESTPAC. She visited the Philippines, Mauritius, Australia and Malaysia. \"Meyerkord\" was deployed to the Indian Ocean with the battle group and the battle group from December 1981 to April 1982.\n\nOn 9 June 1983, \"Meyerkord\" deployed on her sixth WESTPAC with and other Destroyer Squadron 17 ships. World events forced \"New Jersey\" to other commitments and sent \"Meyerkord\" to the Indian Ocean to escort the battle group. Upon completion of the Indian Ocean tour, \"Meyerkord\" was tasked with the humanitarian and salvage operations at the Korean Air Lines Flight 007 crash site after it was shot down by the Soviet Union. \"Meyerkord\" visited Manila, Singapore, Hong Kong and Sasebo during the deployment. \"Meyerkord\" returned to San Diego on 12 December 1983 and began preparation for an overhaul scheduled to start in March 1984 at Long Beach.\nIn 1984 a minor scandal erupted when it was revealed to US media that a suicidal sailor had been chained inside the helicopter hangar aboard \"Meyerkord\" for seven days. This had occurred during the aftermath of the downing of KAL 007 and the Navy stated the suicidal crewmember was a danger to himself and others and could not be medically evacuated immediately due to the urgency of the operations at the time. The sailor was later found guilty of disobeying orders and drug usage and given 30 days confinement with hard labor and a bad conduct discharge.\n\nSometime between 1984 and 1986, the BPDMS was replaced with Phalanx CIWS.\n\n\"Meyerkord\" departed San Diego 12 May 1987 on another WESTPAC. The ship visited Pearl Harbor, Subic Bay, Manila, Yokosuka and Kure, Japan, Pusan, South Korea, Singapore, Albany and Darwin, Australia and Hong Kong. \"Meyerkord\" returned to San Diego 12 November 1987.\n\n\"Meyerkord\" was transferred to the Naval Reserve Force on 30 September 1989 and reassigned to Treasure Island, San Francisco in March 1990.\n\n\"Meyerkord\" was decommissioned on 14 December 1991 and stricken from the Naval Vessel Register on 11 January 1995. \"Meyerkord\" was sold for scrapping, with dismantling beginning on 15 December 2001.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7720211", "categories": ["Ships built in Los Angeles", "Knox-class frigates", "1967 ships", "Cold War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States"], "title": "USS Meyerkord"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720225", "text": "Trails of the Chattahoochee National Forest\n\nThere are 86 trails maintained by the U.S. Forest Service in the Chattahoochee National Forest in the State of Georgia. These trails include:\n", "id": "7720225", "categories": ["Hiking trails in Georgia (U.S. state)"], "title": "Trails of the Chattahoochee National Forest"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720229", "text": "USS Lang (FF-1060)\n\nUSS \"Lang\" (FF-1060) was a of the United States Navy, in service from 1970 to 1991. She was sold for scrapping in 2001. The ship was named for John Lang, the first man on to board in the closing stage of action 18 October 1812, and his ardor and impetuosity carried the remainder of the boarding party with him.\n\n\"Lang\" was laid down by Todd Shipyards, Los Angeles Division, San Pedro, California, 25 March 1967; launched 17 February 1968; sponsored by Mrs. Ephraim P. Holmes, wife of Admiral Holmes, Commander in Chief, Atlantic Fleet, and Supreme Allied Commander, Atlantic Fleet. \"Lang\" was delivered 20 March 1970 and commissioned 28 March 1970.\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\nOn 17 October 1989, hours after the Loma Prieta earthquake, \"Lang\" left Treasure Island for Hunters Point, where she provided wet steam to the Pacific Gas and Electric Company. Through this effort, PG&E was able to quickly re-establish electrical services to San Francisco. For this effort Lang and her crew were awarded the Humanitarian Service Medal, which was later expanded to include all military members in the San Francisco Bay area at the time.\n\n\"Lang\" was decommissioned 12 December 1991, stricken from the Naval Vessel Register 11 January 1995, and sold for scrapping on 15 December 2001.\n\n", "id": "7720229", "categories": ["Ships built in Los Angeles", "Knox-class frigates", "Cold War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States"], "title": "USS Lang (FF-1060)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720237", "text": "USCGC Campbell (WMEC-909)\n\nUSCGC \"Campbell\" (WMEC-909) is a United States Coast Guard medium endurance cutter based at the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery, Maine. \"Campbell\" is the sixth Coast Guard Cutter to bear the name and is assigned to the Atlantic. The ship bears the distinction of having made some of the largest narcotics seizures in Coast Guard history as well as being the command ship for the TWA 800 recovery effort.\n\nThe ship WMEC-909's name primarily commemorates, USCGC \"Campbell\" (WPG-32), was sunk as a training target in November 1984. A final message, broadcast as she went down almost completely intact following a strike from a Harpoon missile, proclaimed the birth of the USCGC \"Campbell\" WMEC-909. It concluded with the words \"The Queen is dead. Long live the Queen.\", a reference to the \"Queen of the Seas\" title bestowed on the prior \"Campbell\" during her 46 years of service.\n\nThe keel for WMEC-909 had been laid at the Derecktor shipyard in Middletown, Rhode Island on 10 August 1984. She was launched on 29 April 1986 and commissioned into service on 19 August 1988. The USCGC \"Campbell\" was the ninth of thirteen Famous-class cutters built by Derecktor to replace World War II and pre–World War II cutters.\n\nThe \"Campbell\" regularly patrols the Atlantic Ocean from the Gulf of Maine to the Caribbean Sea. Like the other Famous-class cutters, she was designed and built for multi-mission tasks in law enforcement, search and rescue, marine environmental protection and military preparedness. Her mission is defined by the Coast Guard as \"Search and Rescue, Enforcement of Laws and Treaties, Fisheries Law Enforcement, Drug Interdiction, Alien and Migrant Interdiction, Homeland Port Security\".\n\nIn the course of fulfilling this mission, \"Campbell\" has received more than one USCG Meritorious Unit Commendation.\n\nThe first significant accomplishment of the new USCGC \"Campbell\" was the rescue of three survivors of the hurricane shipwreck of the S/V \"Moorings 38\" after six days at sea in September 1991.\n\nOn 5 January 1992, the \"Campbell\" interdicted the freighter \"Harbour\" with 10,422 lbs of cocaine on board. The freighter's crew attempted to burn and scuttle the ship, but crewmen from the \"Campbell\" successfully salvaged the vessel and the evidence on board. Other cocaine seizures include 480 kilos in March 1996 dropped by air, over 1000 kilos from the \"M/V Sea Cliff\" in 1996, and 2.9 tons from the former US Navy tug \"Coshecton\" in January 1998.\n\nIn July 1996, the \"Campbell\" responded to the crash of TWA Flight 800 in the Atlantic, securing the area from intrusion and serving as on-scene command for the retrieval and initial investigation.\n\nWhile engaged in flight operations off the coast of Honduras the evening of 29 January 2001, a large wave rocked the \"Campbell\" just as HH-6571, an HH-65 Dolphin helicopter was touching down. The helicopter rolled to its side, impacting the deck with its rotors. 8 people were injured in the accident.\n\nThe US Army Institute of Heraldry designed a new coat of arms for USCGC \"Campbell\". Using colors from the traditions of Clan Campbell, it features a six-point ship's wheel (a symbol of seaworthiness representing the six \"Campbell\"s), on a blue shield (for defense and protection) with gold top that features a battering ram (to symbolize the World War II ramming of U-606 by the WPG-32), topped with a crown (recalling WPG-32's title \"Queen of the Seas\") accented with alternating blue and gold lightning bolts (representing fast-strike capability), held between two seahorses (found likewise on the crest of WPG-32) above a gold ribbon with the words \"Tradition Pride Readiness\" on a white background. Surrounding the image is a blue border with gold trim and gold words \"USCGC Campbell WMEC 909\".\n\nThe \"Campbell\" was mentioned in John Ringo's 2013 book, \"Under a Graveyard Sky\" where it was found adrift following a zombie apocalypse. The few survivors of the ship join their rescuers once all the afflicted crew members have been eliminated.\n\n", "id": "7720237", "categories": ["Ships of the United States Coast Guard", "Famous-class cutters", "Ships built in New York (state)"], "title": "USCGC Campbell (WMEC-909)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720239", "text": "Creek Turnpike\n\nThe Creek Turnpike, also designated State Highway 364 (SH-364), is a freeway-standard toll road that lies entirely in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. The turnpike forms a partial beltway around the south and east sides of Tulsa, Oklahoma's second largest city. The Creek Turnpike's western terminus is at the Turner Turnpike in Sapulpa, while its northeastern terminus is at the Will Rogers Turnpike in Fair Oaks; both ends of the Creek Turnpike connect with Interstate 44 (I-44). Along the way, the highway passes through the cities of Sapulpa, Jenks, Tulsa, and Broken Arrow, and the counties of Creek, Tulsa, Wagoner and Rogers. The road is maintained by the Oklahoma Turnpike Authority (OTA), except for a brief free section shared with U.S. Route 64 (US-64) and US-169. This free section is maintained by the Oklahoma Department of Transportation (ODOT).\n\nThe first section of the Creek Turnpike, from US-75 in Jenks to US-64/US-169 in Tulsa, was first authorized in 1987, with construction beginning in 1989. The turnpike's construction was controversial; homeowners along the route of the highway formed a group called Tulsans Against Turnpikes to fight the highway in both the courtroom and the media. The highway was also challenged on environmental grounds, with impacts upon wetlands and endangered species being the chief concerns. Nevertheless, the highway opened to traffic in three sections, starting from the easternmost, over the course of the first half of 1992.\n\nFurther extensions to both the east and the west followed in later years after several years of false starts under the administrations of two different governors. Expansion of the highway was finally approved in 1998. The extension to the west, linking the Creek Turnpike to the Turner Turnpike in Sapulpa, opened December 15, 2000. The extension to the east opened in three parts over the course of 2001 and 2002.\n\nThe Creek Turnpike begins at I-44 (Turner Turnpike) exit 217 in the city of Sapulpa. This interchange only provides access from eastbound I-44 to the Creek Turnpike and from the Creek Turnpike to westbound I-44. The turnpike runs in a general southeast direction from this terminus towards the Creek–Tulsa county line, crossing over Polecat Creek. Upon crossing into Tulsa County, the toll road turns to a more easterly course. The highway enters Jenks less than one mile (approximately 1.6 km) east of the county line. In Jenks, the highway has a modified cloverleaf interchange at US-75; the westbound Turnpike to southbound US-75 ramp is a directional ramp rather than a loop ramp. The Creek Turnpike then passes through the first of three barrier toll plazas. Near the interchange with Elm Street (signed as \"Peoria–Elm\"; Elm Street is named Peoria Avenue outside of Jenks), the highway bridges Polecat Creek again, before crossing the Arkansas River into Tulsa.\n\nIn Tulsa, the Creek Turnpike has an interchange at Memorial Drive, which carries US-64 south of the toll road. At this interchange, Creek Turnpike traffic merges with northbound US-64 onto a free road, forming the Mingo Valley Expressway. US-169 also begins at this interchange, heading north from here toward its other end in Virginia, Minnesota. As the Mingo Valley Expressway (carrying US-64/US-169) turns north, the Creek Turnpike exits to continue southeast. The highway leaves Tulsa, entering Broken Arrow, where it crosses over Haikey Creek. The turnpike passes through the second toll plaza, then turns back east.\n\nIn southeast Broken Arrow, the Creek Turnpike crosses the county line into Wagoner County and swings towards the north-northeast. It then meets SH-51, followed by the Muskogee Turnpike (SH-351) near that highway's western terminus. The Creek Turnpike passes through the third and final barrier toll after re-entering Tulsa. From the toll plaza, the turnpike proceeds north to end at the I-44/US-412 interchange, which straddles the Wagoner–Rogers County county line. The portion of the interchange that sits in Rogers County also lies in the town of Fair Oaks. The mainline Creek Turnpike becomes the Will Rogers Turnpike as eastbound I-44 merges onto the roadway.\n\nExit numbers are absent along the Creek Turnpike until the 51st Street South interchange, which is numbered as exit 28. Exit numbers are posted north of this interchange, continuing until the highway's terminus (exits 33A–B). The Creek Turnpike's exit numbering is used for the final two exits on the westbound Will Rogers Turnpike—the westbound-only Pine Street exit (exit 35) and the westbound I-44 ramp (exit 34).\n\nThe entirety of the Creek Turnpike has been recognized as important to the country's economy, defense, and mobility by its inclusion in the National Highway System. In 2011, the highest average annual daily traffic (AADT) count was 26,900 vehicles eastbound and 26,476 vehicles westbound between the Yale Avenue and Memorial Drive interchanges. The lowest AADT counts, 4,426 vehicles eastbound and 4,463 vehicles westbound, were recorded between the 11th Street interchange and the northeastern terminus. Law enforcement along the Creek Turnpike is provided by Oklahoma Highway Patrol Troop XE, a special troop assigned to the turnpike.\n\nAs early as the late 1950s, plans for a Tulsa freeway system included a route along 96th Street South. The 96th Street corridor was accessible to more motorists than other corridors further south (farther away from the urban core), while still having low right-of-way costs, comparable to more southerly corridors. This made it the ideal route for a south Tulsa freeway. In 1986, ODOT had plans to build a toll-free facility called the Creek Freeway in the corridor as part of SH-117.\n\nA south Tulsa turnpike was first authorized by OTA in 1987, the same time as three other turnpikes that would ultimately become the Cherokee, Chickasaw, and John Kilpatrick turnpikes. Eleven possible routings were researched before OTA settled on the 96th Street corridor as the site of the proposed turnpike. On February 16, 1989, OTA sold $558.4 million in revenue bonds (about $ in dollars) to cover the cost of all four proposed turnpikes.\n\nAs originally planned, the Creek Turnpike was to begin at US-75 and end at Memorial Drive, for a total length of . ODOT would then build a $26 million (approximately $ in dollars) freeway connection from the eastern terminus of the turnpike at Memorial Drive to tie in with the south end of the Mingo Valley Expressway. OTA intended the turnpike to be built on a \"fast track\", with construction to be complete by the close of 1991. The estimated cost to construct this first segment of the Creek Turnpike was $85 million (about $ in dollars). Initially, the highway was planned to have an median with a Jersey barrier, which would meet minimum AASHTO requirements of . Later plans expanded this to a grass median. Four toll plazas were planned, with one mainline plaza collecting a fifty-cent toll no matter what distance was traveled.\n\nTulsa mayor Rodger Randle's committee on the Creek Turnpike submitted a report to OTA on April 13, 1989, requesting that the agency make 47 changes to the turnpike. Among the changes proposed by the city was a shift in the route of to the north between Yale Avenue and Sheridan Road to accommodate a greenway along both sides of the turnpike. The committee also recommended wider overpasses to accommodate future expansion of surface streets such as Delaware Avenue, moving the mainline toll plaza farther east to minimize impact on the surrounding area, and better compliance with local flood prevention ordinances. In addition, the report suggested better pedestrian access, including pedestrian bridges on both sides of the Arkansas River and near Hunter Park, and various sidewalks and pedestrian tunnels.\n\nOTA immediately agreed that some of the more minor changes to the turnpike's plans could be made, but expressed doubt that more major alterations would be made. Several of the proposed changes, including the greenway, were highlighted as major expenses. Nonetheless, OTA agreed to evaluate the city's proposals. Board member (and future Tulsa mayor) Dewey F. Bartlett, Jr., said \"We are not set in stone, but it's a matter of economics.\" Mayor Randle stated his desire for a written agreement regarding the changes to be drawn up and signed by the city and OTA before ground was broken on the turnpike.\n\nOn June 18, 1989, OTA officials announced that the majority of the city's proposed amendments to the Creek Turnpike would be incorporated into the design. The alterations added $6 million (about $ in dollars) to the cost of the project. However, the revised plan required the demolition of only 41 houses, six fewer than originally planned. Further alterations were negotiated throughout the latter half of 1989, with OTA and Tulsa reaching an agreement on December 29. The plans were adapted to include flood and noise control provisions. To meet these requirements, the highway would be lowered, with some sections below-grade. In exchange, the City of Tulsa agreed to pay $1.3 million in annual maintenance costs until 2020. The deal also included a land swap, with the city giving OTA land from Hunter Park and receiving land along the right-of-way to construct recreational trails.\n\nOTA began filing condemnation suits for homes within the Creek Turnpike's proposed right-of-way on June 30, 1989. Condemnation, the process by which a government exercises its powers of eminent domain, was required for OTA to seize properties necessary for the project when owners refused OTA buyout offers. Bids were opened for Creek Turnpike construction projects that November. Contracts for utility relocation, grading, and drainage work were awarded at OTA's November 16 meeting. Meanwhile, work began on the condemned properties, with contractors moving or demolishing houses on the affected lots from December 1989 to January 1990.\n\nDrainage work was in progress by late February 1990. Construction was underway on turnpike bridges by March 1990. While federal environmental permits were being secured, the construction process was delayed; by October 1990, the bridge construction was only at the point that had been planned to have been completed in May, and grading and paving work had yet to begin. In December 1990, contractors on the Creek Turnpike project were given \"notice to proceed\", as the permits had been granted. By that time, construction had only progressed to the point that it was supposed to have been at in late July. Nevertheless, by April 1991, OTA's chief executive officer, Richard Ridings, described the project as \"moving very well\" and said \"My own personal opinion is it's up to the contractors. If they want to produce, it can be open by the end of the year.\"\n\nThe first section of the Creek Turnpike to open was a segment from Delaware Avenue to its eastern terminus at Memorial Drive, which opened to traffic at 7 p.m. on March 13, 1992. Tolls were waived until 12:01 a.m. on March 16. The next section to the west, from Elm Street in Jenks to Delaware Avenue, including the Arkansas River bridge, opened the afternoon of April 15. The final leg of the first segment of the turnpike, from US-75 to Elm Street, opened at noon on July 30. The Creek Turnpike was initially posted with a speed limit, due to the National Maximum Speed Limit law then in effect. Traffic levels on the new highway were about double what was expected, with an average of 9,000 vehicles per day using the turnpike in August 1992; a 1988 estimate predicted only 3,000 to 5,000 vehicles would use the road each day.\n\nThe Creek Turnpike was opposed by area residents from its conception. Forming a group called \"Tulsans Against Turnpikes\", around 220 citizens gathered at a meeting on February 16, 1989, to discuss the proposed toll road. Opponents to the turnpike cited detrimental effects to their community and to the environment as their concerns. \"What I am concerned about is that it changes the complexion of south Tulsa. It would no longer be a residential area,\" said Tom Taylor, an area resident. Some residents also complained that the proposed turnpike would mainly serve through traffic, despite OTA estimates that south Tulsa residents would make up 90% of the road's userbase.\n\nOn March 22, 1989, three Will Rogers Turnpike tollbooth attendants made a surprise appearance at a Tulsans Against Turnpikes press conference to offer support to the opposition movement, expressing dissatisfaction with working conditions while manning the turnpike. The three attendants also gave examples of firsthand experience with turnpike customers that had convinced them that motorists were not as supportive of turnpikes as OTA executives believed. OTA responded to their employees' remarks by highlighting an Occupational Safety and Health Administration study that found that the toll gate that the three attendants worked at met all safety standards.\n\nIn late June 1989, opponents of the turnpike boycotted local businesses that were members of the Metropolitan Tulsa Chamber of Commerce, which was in favor of the turnpike. Some turnpike protesters removed their names from the customer list at Mazzio's Italian Eatery on June 23. On June 24, about forty protesters picketed the Bank of Oklahoma, and around six closed their accounts. The chief executives of both businesses were on the board of the Chamber of Commerce. In response to the boycott, Mayor Randle issued a statement accusing Tulsans Against Turnpikes of \"seeking to wage economic coercion against businesses\" and described their tactics as \"[working] as a kind of economic blackmail to silence debate\", as well as \"allowing differences of opinion to degenerate into intimidation against those who have taken public stands unpopular with [Tulsans Against Turnpikes]\". Randle also canceled a planned meeting with the group, refusing to meet with them until they ceased the boycott. A Tulsans Against Turnpikes board member publicly replied to the mayor's statement by denying that a boycott was taking place, stating that the group only recommended that members not do business with Mazzio's and Bank of Oklahoma because of their support for the Creek Turnpike project via their activity with the Chamber of Commerce. He also suggested that Randle was simply looking for an excuse to avoid the meeting.\n\nThe environmental group Greenpeace became involved with the opposition movement in October 1989. Holding a joint rally with Tulsans Against Turnpikes and several environmental groups at Hunter Park, a Greenpeace spokeswoman said on October 20 that the Creek Turnpike's construction \"will be setting up Oklahoma as a hazardous waste dumping ground\". Greenpeace's regional coordinator was scheduled to speak at an area library on the same day, but his appearance was canceled when the organization's bus ran out of fuel. A local resident at the Hunter Park forum was quoted as being concerned that the turnpike may allow eastern states such as New York to ship AIDS-contaminated freight through the area.\n\nIn November 1989, Jenks resident Gary Medlin and two Jenks city councilmen drafted a letter to OTA requesting that the agency cease all work on the Creek Turnpike. The letter was approved by the Jenks City Council on November 20. The letter also included a petition in opposition to the turnpike with over 1,000 signatures.\n\nA grand jury petition, bearing over 1,400 signatures across 134 pages, was filed with the Tulsa County election board by Medlin on November 6, 1989. The petition alleged that local and state officials violated the state's open meetings, conspiracy, and conflict of interest laws while planning the turnpike. The election board certified the petition as meeting the required threshold of 1,000 signatures on December 15. Work on the turnpike continued despite the investigation. After meeting for seven days, on January 19, 1990, the grand jury determined that there was no evidence to support the allegations and no need for further investigation.\n\nSome protesters resorted to illegal means to demonstrate their opposition to the project. In December 1989, trees and shrubbery on condemned lots were destroyed in an attempt to prevent them from being transplanted by landscapers. A field office belonging to M. J. Lee Construction Co., a contractor working on the project, was burglarized on March 4, 1990. The perpetrators stole or destroyed tools and poured oil on planning documents. A week later, the fuel lines on heavy equipment were slashed. On the night of April 26, several vehicles at a Creek Turnpike worksite belonging to M. J. Lee were vandalized; the vandals smashed windshields and headlights, stole fuel caps, and dumped mud into the fuel tanks. Messages reading \"Death to OTA\", \"Death to [Governor Henry] Bellmon\" and \"Death to Bartlett\" (who had recently also become a Tulsa city councilman) were written in mud on the side of a water truck at the site. The vice president of the firm emphasized that the company alone bore the brunt of the estimated $10,000 (equivalent to $ in ) financial loss, not OTA, and offered a $1,000 reward for information leading to the prosecution of the responsible party. Construction signage was also removed or covered up with Tulsans Against Turnpikes signs, and survey markers were relocated. Tulsans Against Turnpikes publicly condemned the vandalism, offering an additional $500 reward for information. A member of the group's board stated \"We deplore this kind of cowardly, illegal action. There is no reason for some sick person to take out frustrations on the contractor[...].\" In response to the vandalism, Tulsa police launched an investigation, and OTA stated that Oklahoma Highway Patrol officers would be on patrol in the construction areas. On August 11, 1990, a contractor arriving for work discovered a vandal attempting to break the window of a crane. As the employee approached the crane, four people fled the scene. The employee was able to detain two of them, both aged eighteen, until police arrived and cited them for misdemeanor malicious mischief.\n\nThe Oklahoma Turnpike Authority was exempt from requirements to have a federal environmental impact study (EIS) conducted on the Creek Turnpike project. As part of their opposition to the turnpike, Tulsans Against Turnpikes challenged this right. The group announced in April 1989 that if the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT), and U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) did not force OTA to conduct an EIS within 60 days they would sue the three federal agencies. Tulsans Against Turnpikes, joined by an area homeowners' association, John Reidel (a homeowner whose property was condemned by OTA and had filed previous suits as early as the 1950s to stop the turnpike's construction), and several other affected individuals, filed the suit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma on August 10. Defendants in the suit included the federal agencies, state transportation and environmental agencies, and the city of Tulsa. That November, Tulsans Against Turnpikes filed a motion requesting an injunction against further work on the turnpike.\n\nOn January 27, 1990, U.S. District Judge Thomas Rutherford Brett dismissed seven of the nine claims before him, and on March 24, the plaintiffs filed a motion to drop the two remaining claims in hopes that the judge would reconsider the claims already dismissed. The plaintiffs also filed for a restraining order to halt construction activities. In support of their filings, the turnpike opponents alleged that OTA was illegally dumping material into waterways. OTA responded by producing U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) documentation showing that no illegal discharge had taken place, and that USACE had not issued any cease and desist orders due to unlawful activity. OTA argued that the plaintiffs' requests for a restraining order and reconsideration of the dismissed claims were invalid because there was no change in their legal authority or the facts surrounding the case to warrant such a reconsideration.\n\nAt a hearing on May 22, 1990, Judge Brett announced his refusal to reconsider the seven dismissed claims, ending the lawsuit, and ruled all remaining pending motions moot. At the hearing, Brett said that the issue at the heart of the suit was the highway's effect on area residents. While this was a legitimate interest, the judge said, it was not covered by the environmental laws under which the plaintiffs chose to challenge the project. Brett also pointed out that the environmental questions were at that time under review by the appropriate federal agencies.\n\nInitial turnpike plans included environmental mitigation features to reduce the amount of disruption the finished road would cause to the local environment. In the Jenks area, OTA planned to replace destroyed wetlands with new wetlands of equal or greater size. Landscapers were expected to plant two trees for every one removed to build the road. In March 1990, these plans were augmented to provide wetlands mitigation at a rate of three to one, for a total of of new wetlands. Additionally, of pasture would be allowed to revert to its natural state to create \"dedicated natural succession areas.\"\n\nOn July 21, 1989, OTA approved a contract to transplant approximately 290 live trees in the path of the turnpike to locations along the edge of the right-of-way. There, the trees would serve as a barrier between the road and the surrounding properties, masking the road from view and muffling the sounds of traffic. A Norman landscaping firm performed the work, which included thirty months of maintenance, for a total cost of $288.50 per tree (equivalent to $ in dollars).\n\nThe Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) objected to the construction of the Creek Turnpike in a letter dated January 30, 1990. FEMA felt that documentation on how the project would affect the floodplains in the area was lacking, preventing local authorities from requesting updates to floodplain maps, which were necessary to keep their communities enrolled in flood insurance programs. OTA's attorney stated that the requisite information had been provided to local officials, and it was not OTA's responsibility to ensure that they forwarded the information on to FEMA.\n\nA Tulsa-area supervisor with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) commented upon environmental issues pertaining to the Creek Turnpike in a 19-page letter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers dated February 9, 1990. USACE was responsible for issuing three essential permits (which OTA had applied for on November 6, 1989) that would allow construction to continue, and was required to consider input from the service. In the letter, supervisor Stephen Forsythe recommended that the permits be denied and further studies conducted into alternate routes for the turnpike and the environmental impact on roads that connected to the turnpike. However, USACE only had the authority to review the impacts the Creek Turnpike itself made on wetland areas. Governor Bellmon publicly criticized Forsythe for focusing on concerns beyond USACE's jurisdiction. Bellmon's Transportation Secretary, Neal McCaleb, publicly stated \"I think [Forsythe] is out of line[...] and would say so to Mr. Forsythe.\" Bellmon and McCaleb discussed the letter in a private meeting with the Secretary of the Interior, Manuel Lujan, although Lujan neither commented nor committed to any action regarding the letter. In response to Bellmon's criticism of the letter, Tulsans Against Turnpikes issued a public statement, saying \"Running behind closed political doors like that demonstrates the governor is an environmental hypocrite,\" contrasting his statements with a letter he wrote assuring a constituent in Jenks that the project would be \"the most aesthetically pleasing and environmentally sound facility that can be constructed\".\n\nIn a letter sent to OTA in March 1990, USACE identified issues with the Creek Turnpike project, such as modifications to Polecat Creek's channel, impacts on the Arkansas River floodplain and levee system near Jenks, and loss of of wetlands. In two other letters sent in May 1990, USACE requested alterations to the project, detailing further concerns about destruction of a unique type of wetland near the turnpike's planned intersection with Yale Avenue, OTA's plan to temporarily drain Mill Creek Bridge Pond, and emergency access to homes only accessible by crossing the pond on a wooden bridge. USACE warned that, should the changes the corps requested not be made, the turnpike plans may violate federal law, which would result in USACE withholding the necessary permits. The corps also required \"absolute assurance\" that new wetlands constructed as part of the project's mitigation efforts would not be built on land that was formerly the site of a landfill. On March 29, USACE held a public hearing as part of the permit process. The hearing had around 500 attendees, with over fifty of them giving five-minute speeches against the turnpike. One speaker compared the highway's environmental impact to that of the wreck of the oil tanker \"Exxon Valdez\". No citizens spoke out in favor of the project.\n\nOTA announced plans to include sound barriers at three points along the turnpike in April 1990. The locations were recommended by a report commissioned by OTA, using guidelines published by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). While another thirteen locations were likely to have similar noise levels as the three sites selected to receive barriers, abatement was not considered at those locations because they did not meet other criteria, including minimum population density. Although OTA was not required to follow FHWA guidelines on the Creek Turnpike because it was not a federally funded project, it opted to do so anyway.\n\nAnother letter, dated June 21, 1990, was sent by FWS to USACE, reporting that at least eight interior least terns, an endangered species, had been found on a small island in the Arkansas River approximately south of the site of the proposed turnpike bridge. Although the bridge was not yet under construction at the time, the anticipated eighteen-month period of bridge construction had the possibility of interfering with the terns' nesting period, which runs from mid-May to mid-August. FWS was also in favor of requiring OTA to prepare a full EIS, a process that could have taken up to three years.\n\nFurther delays on the Creek Turnpike project appeared inevitable in October 1990, as a new area meeting the federal definition of a wetland was discovered in the path of the turnpike. OTA officials did not bring the area to USACE's attention because they did not believe it met the criteria to be considered a wetland. Frustration mounted after the find; rumors surfaced that OTA was considering canceling the Creek Turnpike and shifting the remaining funds to turnpike projects in the Oklahoma City area. In an interview after an OTA meeting, chairman John Kilpatrick was quoted as saying \"God only knows when [the Creek Turnpike will] be completed,\" describing the project as a \"total disaster\" and commenting \"If we had it all to do over again, we wouldn't do that project.\" OTA was concerned about the financial impact of USACE's delay in issuing the required permits; each day after the planned opening date that the project ran late added $20,000 (approximately $ in dollars) to the total cost of the project. USACE finally issued the permit on November 15, over a year after OTA applied for it.\n\nOne stipulation the USACE placed on the permit, however, was that no work in the Arkansas riverbed could take place after May 1 if it would interfere with the interior least tern nesting period, which was possible if the birds selected nesting sites around the bridge site. As a result, OTA worked to complete the bridge as quickly as possible to avoid the possibility of having to suspend the construction. By April 1991, work in the riverbed was mostly complete, with the remaining work on the bridge posing no threat to the terns.\n\nThe possibility of extending the Creek Turnpike beyond its original termini at US-75 and Memorial Drive was raised as early as 1993. On May 28, 1993, Governor David Walters announced a proposed $3.1 billion (around $ in dollars) turnpike package, one part of which was the extension of the Creek Turnpike to the Turner Turnpike to the west and the Will Rogers Turnpike in the east. As a result of negotiations between Walters, other lawmakers, and OTA, the package was ultimately pared down to $675 million (about $ in dollars); among the cuts was the eastern extension of the Creek Turnpike. This version of the package was approved by OTA on August 18, 1994. The package was ultimately killed almost two months later, when the Legislative Bond Oversight Commission voted 4–2 to stop the sale of the bonds associated with the project on October 3. Reasons for opposition to the package were varied, including concerns over OTA's debt level, toll increases necessary to fund the package, the state of the bond market, a federal investigation examining previous OTA bond sales, lack of details given about the package, the size of the package, and the proposed method by which the bonds would be sold.\n\nAnother Creek Turnpike expansion proposal, connecting it again to the Turner Turnpike in the west, but only extending it as far as the Muskogee Turnpike in the east, was put forward by Walters's successor, Governor Frank Keating, in 1996. This proposal, accompanied by a proposed extension to the Kilpatrick Turnpike in Oklahoma City, was to be funded by increasing tolls by 10 percent statewide in 1999. Keating's turnpike package, too, encountered trouble from the Legislative Bond Oversight Commission. The body unanimously voted on July 25, 1996, to postpone an up-or-down vote on the projects, which together carried a price tag of $525 million (approximately $ in dollars), until more information was made available to its members. Keating declared the package dead in response to the commission's action.\n\nThe Creek Turnpike extensions resurfaced in a 1998 turnpike expansion plan. OTA approved a $724 million (about $ in dollars) bond package at its meeting on January 9, 1998. This package, which carried the support of both Governor Keating and legislative leaders, included a extension of the Creek Turnpike to the Turner and Will Rogers turnpikes, extension of the Kilpatrick Turnpike, and a new toll road which would become the H.E. Bailey Turnpike Norman Spur. The plan, which was to be funded by a 15% systemwide toll increase, was approved by both the Legislative Bond Oversight Commission and Executive Bond Oversight Commission on January 29, 1998.\n\nConstruction of the portion of the highway between the eastern terminus and the Muskogee Turnpike, known as the Broken Arrow south loop, was scheduled to begin in May 1999 and be completed in January 2001. The section from the Muskogee Turnpike north to the Will Rogers Turnpike was to begin construction in September 1999 and be completed in January 2002. Unlike the section of the turnpike built in the early 1990s, this section was expected to displace few residents; the city of Broken Arrow had purchased much of the right-of-way ahead of time to preserve the corridor for the expected turnpike.\n\nWhile construction of the other two sections of the turnpike ran according to schedule, progress on the Broken Arrow south loop lagged behind. Cost overruns due to higher-than-estimated land acquisition costs caused delays as the project was revised to save money. The project was stalled further by the May 3, 1999, tornado outbreak, as utility contractors were pulled off the project to contribute to service restoration efforts in the Oklahoma City area. By August 1999, the south loop was six months behind schedule. Despite the cost-saving measures, the south loop remained over budget by $16 million (around $ in dollars) in July 2000. The western extension was also over budget; OTA discovered over 100 abandoned oil wells that needed to be capped and leftover piping in the turnpike corridor. Budget overruns on the western leg of the turnpike were $5 million (about $ in dollars) in July 2000.\n\nThe western extension was the first to open to traffic. Following a brief dedication ceremony attended by Governor Keating, Transportation Secretary McCaleb, and OTA board member Bartlett, the highway opened on December 15, 2000. As with the first section of the turnpike, tolls were waived for the weekend; the road was free until noon on December 18. The south loop was opened in two segments. The first, from US-64/US-169 to South Elm Place in Broken Arrow, opened at 3 p.m. August 15, 2001. The new segment remained toll-free until 7 a.m. August 20. A rainy September pushed back the opening of the other half of the south loop by two months. The second half of the south loop, from Elm Place to New Orleans Street, opened at 2 p.m. April 15, 2002. The final segment of the extension, connecting New Orleans Street and the Muskogee Turnpike to the Will Rogers Turnpike, was scheduled to open on August 16 of that year.\n\nA new interchange at Aspen Avenue in Broken Arrow opened on May 18, 2012. The project was completed three weeks ahead of schedule at a cost of $6.137 million, of which $1.75 million was paid by OTA, with the rest coming from the City of Broken Arrow. The new interchange was expected to attract retail, dining, and entertainment development to the area around the interchange.\n\nA construction project that started in May 2012 expanded the turnpike to six lanes total, or three lanes in each direction, between US-75 and Memorial Drive. Throughout the project, speed limits along the turnpike were reduced to . The project was completed in October 2013.\n\nThe Creek Turnpike originally bore no numbered designation. On March 10, 2014, the Oklahoma Transportation Commission unanimously approved a motion to apply the SH-364 designation to the turnpike.\n\n, motorists driving two-axle vehicles, such as cars and motorcycles, pay tolls of $3.35 in cash, or $3.00 if Pikepass electronic tolling is used, to drive the entire length of the Creek Turnpike. Drivers of vehicles with more than two axles, such as truckers, pay higher tolls; six-axle vehicles are charged rates of $13.30 ($12.25 with Pikepass). Tolls are collected at three mainline toll plazas along the road, one between the US-75 and Peoria–Elm interchanges, one west of the Olive Avenue interchange, and one (labeled as the Creek East plaza) south of the 31st Street South interchange. Additional fares for traveling beyond the barrier tolls are collected at toll gates located at each exit; as at the mainline plazas, Pikepass customers receive a discounted rate at these gates.\n\nThe Creek Turnpike is equipped with open-road tolling for Pikepass customers. The turnpike has been completely automated since early 1996; no human toll collectors are present. Cash customers pull to the right and deposit coins into toll baskets. Change machines capable of changing $1 and $5 bills are available, as well as machines that produce receipts for customers requiring them.\n\n\n", "id": "7720239", "categories": ["Transportation in Tulsa County, Oklahoma", "Transportation in Creek County, Oklahoma", "Toll roads in Oklahoma", "Transportation in Rogers County, Oklahoma", "Transportation in Wagoner County, Oklahoma", "Transport infrastructure completed in 1992", "Transportation in Tulsa, Oklahoma"], "title": "Creek Turnpike"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720243", "text": "USS Patterson (FF-1061)\n\nUSS \"Patterson\" (FF-1061) was a United States Navy in commission from 1970 to 1991. She was named in honor of Commodore Daniel Todd Patterson (1786-1839), who performed distinguished service at New Orleans during the War of 1812.\n\n\"Patterson\" was built at Westwego, Louisiana by Avondale Shipyard. She was commissioned on 14 March 1970, conducted shakedown training out of Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and in June and August 1971 made her first overseas deployment, a trip to northern Europe. Her next deployment, to the Mediterranean Sea for service with the Sixth Fleet, took place during the first half of 1974. When all newer escort ships were reclassified as frigates in mid-1975, Patterson became FF-1061. At about this time she was also updated, receiving enlarged helicopter facilities and the Basic Point Defense Missile System, whose launcher for eight \"Sea Sparrow\" guided missiles was installed on her afterdeck.\n\n\"Patterson\" made another Mediterranean cruise from late 1976 to mid-1977 and a third in 1978 and early 1979. In September and October 1979 the ship returned to northern European waters and in mid-1980 she provided help to the West Indies island of St. Lucia after it was hit by a devastating hurricane. After steaming east to the Mediterranean in October 1980, \"Patterson\" voyaged onward to make a tour of the Persian Gulf during the last months of that year and the first month of 1981. A fifth Sixth Fleet cruise followed from late in 1981 into 1982, with Red Sea operations at the end of the deployment. The frigate earned a Meritorious Unit Commendation for her activities during this time.\n\nIn June 1983 \"Patterson\" was assigned to the Naval Reserve Force, based at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. She remained in this non-deploying status for the next eight years, making frequent cruises in the western Atlantic area, from Canada to the West Indies, to keep Naval Reservists' training up to date.\n\nIn late 1990 \"Patterson\" conducted counter-narcotics operations in the Caribbean, taking a two-way passage through the Panama Canal as part of her work. A final cruise, to Bermuda in May 1991, was followed by decommissioning on 30 September 1991.\n\nAfter more than three years in the Atlantic Reserve Fleet, \"Patterson\" was stricken from the Naval Vessel Register on 11 January 1995. Though later considered for transfer to Greece as a source of spare parts, she remained in U.S. Navy custody until late September 1999, when a contract was let for her scrapping. The ship was broken up at Baltimore, Maryland, during the rest of 1999 and the first half of 2000.\n\n", "id": "7720243", "categories": ["Knox-class frigates", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Cold War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States"], "title": "USS Patterson (FF-1061)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720255", "text": "USS Reasoner\n\nUSS \"Reasoner\" (FF-1063) was a of the United States Navy, named in honor of 1st Lt. Frank S. Reasoner, awarded the Medal of Honor posthumously in the Vietnam War.\n\n\"Reasoner\" was laid down 6 January 1969, by Lockheed Shipbuilding and Construction Company, Seattle, Washington, and launched 1 August 1970, cosponsored by Mrs. James C. Curry and Mrs. Robert Svinger. \"Reasoner\" was commissioned 31 July 1971, Cmdr. Francisco Velazquez-Suarez, USN, commanding. Her hull number, originally DE-1063, was changed in 1975.\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class design was derived from the , modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe warships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by two C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\n\"Reasoner\" first deployed with HSL 31 \"Lamps\" SH2D in 1973 to Southeast Asia and took part in Operation End Sweep (the removal of mines in Haiphong Harbor). \"Reasoner\" was decommissioned on 28 August 1993, and subsequently leased to Turkey, where the ship was recommissioned as \"Kocatepe\". On 22 February 2002, she was finally purchased by Turkey. On 4 May 2005, the ship was used as a target and sunk in the Mediterranean Sea.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7720255", "categories": ["1970 ships", "Ships transferred from the United States Navy to the Turkish Navy", "Ships built in Seattle", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Reasoner"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720263", "text": "USS Lockwood\n\nUSS \"Lockwood\" (FF-1064) was the 13th destroyer escort, redesignated a frigate in 1975. She was named for Charles A. Lockwood.\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\nShe was constructed by Todd Pacific Shipyards, Seattle, Washington, laid down 3 November 1967, launched 5 September 1968 and delivered 1 December 1970. \"Lockwood\" was commissioned 5 December 1970 as destroyer escort (DE-1064) under the command of Commander Robert C. Woods USN. \n\nIn May 1975 USS \"Lockwood\" was reassigned to forward deployed Destroyer Squadron 15, changing her homeport to Yokosuka, Japan to be part of the USS \"Midway\" (CV-41) and her battle group. On 30 June 1975 USS \"Lockwood\" was reclassified as a frigate (FF 1064).\n\nFrom 27 September - 21 December 1977 USS \"Lockwood\" sailed with the Midway battle group. during the cruise USS \"Lockwood\" visited ports, including Karachi, Pakistan, Singapore, and Bunbury, Western Australia.\n\nOn 1 November 1978 USS \"Lockwood\", along with her sister ship USS \"Kirk\" (FF-1087) and oiler USS \"Ashtabula\" (AO-51) arrived in Perth/Fremantle, Western Australia, for an R&R visit. They departed on 11 November.\n\nFrom 24 February to 5 June 1981 USS \"Lockwood\" sailed with the Midway battle group. during the cruise USS \"Lockwood\" again visited Bunbury, Western Australia, from 6-11 May 1981.\n\nIn July 1988, USS \"Lockwood\" changed Homeport to Naval Station Long Beach, CA. where she would remain until her decommissioning on 30 September 1993, struck from the NVR after 22.8 years of service\n\nContract awarded 29 September 1999 for $3.7 million to Ship Dismantling & Recycling Joint Venture, San Francisco, California for towing/scrapping and Disposed of by Recycling, 4 August 2000.\n\n\n", "id": "7720263", "categories": ["Ships built in Seattle", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Lockwood"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720275", "text": "USS Marvin Shields\n\nUSS \"Marvin Shields\" (FF-1066) was a of the US Navy. The ship was named after the only Seabee to receive the Medal of Honor. CM3 Marvin Glenn Shields was awarded the Medal of Honor during the Vietnam War.\n\n\"Marvin Shields\" (DD‑1066) was laid down 12 April 1968, by Todd Pacific Shipyards, Seattle, Washington; launched 23 October 1969, and delivered 1 April 1971; cosponsored by Mrs. Victoria Cassalery and Mrs. Richard A. Bennett; commissioned 10 April 1971.\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\n1983 Deployment\n\nOn 20 July 1983, the \"New York Times\" reported that the Marvin Shields along with seven other vessels in the Carrier Ranger Battle Group left San Diego on Friday, 15 July 1983, and were headed for the West Pacific when they were rerouted and ordered to steam for Central America to conduct training and flight operations in areas off the coasts of Nicaragua, El Salvador, and Honduras as part of major military exercises planned for that summer.\n\nBesides the \"Marvin Shields\", the battle group was composed of the carrier , the cruiser , the guided missile destroyer , the destroyers and , the oiler , and the support ship .\n\n\"Marvin Shields\" was commissioned 10 April 1971, decommissioned 2 July 1992, and struck 11 January 1995. She was subsequently transferred to Mexican Navy and renamed ARM \"Abasolo\".\n\n\n", "id": "7720275", "categories": ["Ships transferred from the United States Navy to the Mexican Navy", "Ships built in Seattle", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Marvin Shields"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720278", "text": "Robert Abelson\n\nRobert Paul Abelson (September 12, 1928 – July 13, 2005) was a Yale University psychologist and political scientist with special interests in statistics and logic.\n\nHe was born in New York City and attended the Bronx High School of Science. He did his undergraduate work at MIT and his Ph.D. in psychology at Princeton University's Department of Psychology under John Tukey and Silvan Tomkins.\n\nFrom Princeton, Abelson went to Yale, where he stayed for the subsequent five decades of his career. Arriving during the \"Yale Communication Project\", Abelson contributed to the foundation of attitudes studies as co-author of \"Attitude Organization and Change: An Analysis of Consistency Among Attitude Component\", (1960, with Rosenberg, Hovland, McGuire, & Brehm). While at Yale, Abelson was briefly a bass in the Yale Russian Chorus.\n\nWith Milton J. Rosenberg, he developed the notion of “symbolic psycho-logic,\" an early attempt, using an idiosyncratic kind of adjacency matrix of a signed graph, at a descriptive (rather than prescriptive) psychological organization of attitudes and attitude consistency, which was key to the development of the field of social cognition.\n\nThe notion that beliefs, attitudes, and ideology were deeply connected knowledge structures was contained in \"Scripts, Plans, Goals, and Understanding\" (1977, with Roger Schank), a work that has collected several thousand citations, and led to the first interdisciplinary graduate program in cognitive science at Yale. His work on voting behavior in the 1960 and 1964 elections, and the creation of a computer program modeling ideology (the “Goldwater machine”) helped define and build the field of political psychology.\n\nHe was the author of \"Statistics As Principled Argument\" which includes prescriptions for how statistical analyses should proceed, as well as a description of what statistical analysis is, why we should do it, and how to differentiate good from bad statistical arguments. He was a co-author of several other books in psychology, statistics, and political science.\nIn 1959, Abelson published a paper to elucidate different ways in which an individual tends to resolve his \"belief dilemmas\" (Abelson «Modes of Resolution of Belief Dilemmas» Journal of conflict Resolution 1959). \nAbelson received the Distinguished Scientific Contribution Award from APA, the Distinguished Scientist Award from SESP, and the Distinguished Scientist Award from the International Society of Political Psychology. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1978.\n\nHe died of complications of Parkinson's disease.\n\n\n", "id": "7720278", "categories": ["Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni", "American political scientists", "People with Parkinson's disease", "2005 deaths", "American social psychologists", "Deaths from Parkinson's disease", "Yale University faculty", "Princeton University alumni", "1928 births", "Fellows of the American Statistical Association"], "title": "Robert Abelson"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720283", "text": "USS Francis Hammond\n\nUSS \"Francis Hammond\" (DE/FF-1067) is the ninth \"Knox\"-class frigate, named in honor of Hospitalman Francis Colton Hammond, a Medal of Honor recipient.\n\nShe was originally designed as a \"Knox\"-class ocean escort (DE-1067), and was built by Todd Shipyards, Los Angeles Division, San Pedro, California. The ship's keel was laid on 15 July 1967. She was launched on 11 May 1968; sponsored by Mrs. Phyllis Hammond Smith (widow of Hospitalman Hammond). The ship was commissioned at Long Beach Naval Shipyard, Long Beach, California on 25 July 1970, with Commander John E. Elmore in command.\n\nThe \"Knox\" class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\nAs part of the Navy's 1975 ship reclassification, \"Francis Hammond\" was reclassified as a frigate (FF-1067) on 30 June 1975.\nIn December 1986, after the ship's company of \"Francis Hammond\" raised over $11,000 for Navy Relief (beating their goal of ten times the ship's hull number), permission was granted to temporarily add a dollar sign, a thousands separator, and an extra zero to the hull number painted on the side of the ship.\n\nDecommissioned 2 July 1992 in Long Beach, California after twenty-one years and nine months in active commission and struck from the Navy Register on 11 January 1995. \"Francis Hammond\" was disposed of by scrapping 31 March 2003.\nReferences : USS \"Francis Hammond\" on NavSource.org\n\n\n", "id": "7720283", "categories": ["Ships built in Los Angeles", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Francis Hammond"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720291", "text": "Omni wheel\n\nOmni wheels or poly wheels, similar to Mecanum wheels, are wheels with small discs around the circumference which are perpendicular to the turning direction. The effect is that the wheel can be driven with full force, but will also slide laterally with great ease. These wheels are often employed in holonomic drive systems.\n\nA platform employing three omni wheels in a triangular configuration is generally called Kiwi Drive. The Killough platform is similar; so named after Stephen Killough's work with omnidirectional platforms at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Killough's 1994 design used pairs of wheels mounted in cages at right angles to each other and thereby achieved holonomic movement without using true omni wheels.\n\nThey are often used in intelligent robot research for small autonomous robots. In projects such as VEX Robotics, Robocup and FIRST Robotics, many robots use these wheels to have the ability to move in all directions. Omni wheels are also sometimes employed as powered casters for differential drive robots to make turning faster. Omniwheels are often used to allow for movement on the horizontal axis on a drivetrain, as well as forward and backward movement. Usually, this is achieved is by using an H-drive.\n\nOmniwheels combined with conventional wheels provide unique performance properties, such as on a six-wheeled vehicle employing two conventional wheels on a center axle and four omniwheels on front and rear axles.\n\nThe wheel was first patented in 1919 by J. Grabowiecki.\n\nA variant of the wheel was patented by Josef F. Blumrich in 1972.\n\nBlumrich claimed that the design is described in the Book of Ezekiel as a component of a spacecraft created by extraterrestrial life, which is why the wheel is sometimes jokingly called the \"Ezekiel wheel\". \"The Spaceships of Ezekiel\" describes his thought provoking process for the discovery and recreation of the Omni wheel as well as a traveling craft and its docking station.\n\nA recent invention is the so-called Liddiard Wheel, which claims to be a superior omnidirectional wheel.\n\n\n", "id": "7720291", "categories": [], "title": "Omni wheel"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720292", "text": "Netherlands women's national volleyball team\n\nThe Netherlands women's national volleyball team is the national volleyball team of the Netherlands. It is governed by the \"Nederlandse Volleyball Bond\" (NeVoBo). Following the 1995 European Championship they hosted in Arnhem and finishing fifth at the 1996 Olympics, the Dutch have had moments of success amidst instability, such as the title of the 2007 FIVB World Grand Prix, and a return to the Olympic Games in 2016, where the Netherlands got to fourth place.\n\n Champions   Runners-up   Third place   Fourth place\n\n Champions   Runners-up   Third place   Fourth place\n\n Champions   Runners-up   Third place   Fourth place\n\n Champions   Runners-up   Third place   Fourth place\n\n Champions   Runners-up   Third place   Fourth place\n\n Champions   Runners-up   Third place   Fourth place\n\nThe following is the Dutch roster in the 2018 World Championship.\n\nHead coach: Jamie Morrison\n\nIn alphabetical order\n\n\n", "id": "7720292", "categories": ["National women's volleyball teams", "Women's national sports teams of the Netherlands"], "title": "Netherlands women's national volleyball team"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720296", "text": "Mike Ferguson (footballer)\n\nMichael Kevin Ferguson (born 9 March 1943 in Burnley, Lancashire) is an English former footballer who played in the Football League for Accrington Stanley, Blackburn Rovers, Aston Villa, Queens Park Rangers, Cambridge United, Rochdale and Halifax Town, and in the North American Soccer League for the Los Angeles Aztecs.\n\nHe has played in many positions for many clubs. He started with Plymouth Argyle, then as a member of the Accrington Stanley team that dropped out of the league in 1962. He scored their last goal in the league though this was officially expunged as Accrington did not complete the League season. Moves to Blackburn Rovers and Aston Villa followed before joining Queens Park Rangers in November 1969.\n\nFerguson made 68 appearances for QPR spanning 4 seasons, scoring 2 goals. He made his QPR debut in November 1969 at home to Leicester City.\n\nFerguson left Rangers in 1973 for Cambridge United and then Rochdale whom he unsuccessfully managed between 1977 and 1978 before moving to the United States with the Los Angeles Aztecs. He also managed ÍA Akranes from Iceland in 1976, APOEL Nicosia between 1981 and 1983 and was a part of the Kuwait national team set up along with Malcolm Allison.\n\n \n", "id": "7720296", "categories": ["Sportspeople from Burnley", "Halifax Town A.F.C. players", "North American Soccer League (1968–84) players", "English expatriate footballers", "Rochdale A.F.C. players", "1943 births", "Blackburn Rovers F.C. players", "Aston Villa F.C. players", "Association footballers not categorized by position", "Accrington Stanley F.C. (1891) players", "English footballers", "Cambridge United F.C. players", "Plymouth Argyle F.C. players", "Íþróttabandalag Akraness managers", "Expatriate football managers in Cyprus", "Queens Park Rangers F.C. players", "Tottenham Hotspur F.C. non-playing staff", "Living people", "Los Angeles Aztecs players", "APOEL FC managers", "English expatriate sportspeople in the United States", "English football managers", "English expatriate sportspeople in Kuwait", "Expatriate soccer players in the United States", "Rochdale A.F.C. managers", "English expatriate sportspeople in Cyprus", "Expatriate football managers in Iceland"], "title": "Mike Ferguson (footballer)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720307", "text": "Primera División de Fútbol Profesional Apertura 2006\n\nThe Primera División de Fútbol Profesional Apertura 2006 season (\"officially \"Torneo Apertura 2006\"\") started on August 12, 2006 and concluded on December 17.\n\nThe fourth place match was played on November 30. The winner advances to the semifinals.\n\nThe team with the lower league position played home in the 1st leg. The 1st legs were played on December 2 and December 3. The 2nd legs were played on December 9 and December 10.\n\nThe final game was played on December 17.\n\nThis is a list of foreign players in Apertura 2006. The following players:\n\nA new rule was introduced this season that clubs can only have three foreign players per club and can only add a new player if there is an injury or player/s is released.\n\nC.D. Águila\n\nAlianza F.C.\n\nChalatenango\n\nC.D. FAS\n\nC.D. Luis Ángel Firpo\n\nIndependiente Nacional 1906\n\nA.D. Isidro Metapán\n\nOnce Municipal\n\nSan Salvador F.C.\n\nVista Hermosa\n\n", "id": "7720307", "categories": ["2006–07 in Central American football leagues", "Primera División de Fútbol Profesional Apertura seasons"], "title": "Primera División de Fútbol Profesional Apertura 2006"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720312", "text": "USS Vreeland\n\nUSS \"Vreeland\" (FF-1068) was a of the United States Navy. The ship was named for Rear Admiral Charles E. Vreeland (1852–1916).\n\n\"Vreeland\" (DE-1068) was laid down on 20 March 1968 by the Avondale Shipyard at Westwego, La.; launched on 16 June 1969; sponsored by Mrs. Jamie L. Whitten, wife of the Congressman representing Mississippi's 2nd Congressional district; and commissioned at Charleston, S.C., on 13 June 1970, Comdr. David R. Stefferud in command.\n\nAfter fitting out at Charleston and shakedown training in the West Indies, \"Vreeland\" returned to Charleston to join Destroyer Squadron (DesRon) 4. She completed repairs in February 1971 and final contract trials in March and then began preparations for her first deployment to the Mediterranean area. The warship departed Charleston on 15 April and arrived in Rota, Spain, on the 25th. During the next six months, she steamed the length and breadth of the \"middle sea\" as a unit of the 6th Fleet. She visited numerous ports and participated in a host of exercises with American and Allied naval forces. She concluded that tour of duty at Gibraltar on 8 October when she changed operational control back to the 2d Fleet and headed home. The warship arrived in Charleston on the 16th and resumed 2d Fleet operations out of Charleston.\n\nIn the summer of 1972, the ship began preparations for another cruise in the Mediterranean Sea. That deployment, however, proved different than the previous one. Rather than deploying for six months and then returning home to Charleston, \"Vreeland\" received orders changing her home port to Athens. That assignment lasted for the next three years rather than the normal six months and included the relocation of \"Vreeland\" dependents to Athens—all as a part of the Navy's forward deployment program. During those three years, she performed the normal duties of a unit of the 6th Fleet, visiting ports, conducting exercises, and performing surveillance of Soviet ships operating in the Mediterranean.\n\nOn 1 July 1975, \"Vreeland\" was reclassified a frigate and redesignated FF-1068. Three days later, she departed Greece to begin her voyage back to the United States. The warship concluded that voyage, and her three-year deployment, at Philadelphia on 30 July. After post-deployment standdown, she moved south to Norfolk in September for repairs but returned to Philadelphia in October in time to participate in the Navy's 200th birthday celebration on the 13th. Duty as a surface warfare school ship and more repairs at Norfolk followed.\n\nOn 6 December, the frigate entered the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard, where she spent the following year undergoing a major overhaul, which she completed on 2 December 1976. The warship resumed duty as an active unit of the Fleet early in 1977. Refresher training and various qualification exercises out of her new home port of Mayport, Florida, occupied her during the first six months of 1977. On 25 July, she departed Mayport for a cruise to South America to participate in UNITAS XVIII, the annual series of exercises in which units of various South American navies join the United States Navy in practicing the skills of hemispheric defense. In November, she concluded her UNITAS cruise and reentered Mayport on the 25th. Leave and upkeep in port took up her time for the remainder of the year.\n\nA part of January and February 1978 was devoted to a restricted availability for \"Vreeland\". The frigate devoted the ensuing months to preparations for her forthcoming deployment to the Middle East. \"Vreeland\" departed from Mayport on 23 July in company with Mullinix (DD-944). Following fuel stops at Bermuda, the Azores, and Rota, Spain, the ships transited the Mediterranean and the Suez Canal and arrived at Port Sudan, Sudan, on 9 August. A turnover from Glover (AGFF-1) and Barney (DDG-6) was effected, and \"Vreeland\" joined the Middle East Force. The remainder of the year was spent in operations with that group. On 31 December, \"Vreeland\" and Mullinix retransited the Suez Canal on their return to the United States.\n\n\"Vreeland\" participated in \"Operation Just Cause\" (United States invasion of Panama), 20 December 1989 – 31 January 1990.\n\nIn December 1990, \"Vreeland\" departed Mayport, Florida, to take part in Operation Desert Storm, 17 January – 28 February 1991. During \"Vreeland\"s transit to the Persian Gulf, members of the crew were assigned to the Multi-national Interception Force. This MIF team was divided into two groups; MIF teams blue and gold. The purpose of this group was to board merchant vessels to ensure cargo was in compliance with United Nations trade embargoes imposed on Iraq. MIF conducted more than 41 boardings, and diverted or confiscated tons of contraband.\n\n\"Vreeland\" was decommissioned on 30 June 1992. On 11 January 1995, the \"Vreeland\" was stricken from the American Naval Vessel Register.\n\nThe ship was renamed \"Macedonia\" (F458), and leased to Greece under the Foreign Assistance Act, 30 June 1992.\n\n\"Macedonia\" was decommissioned from the Hellenic Navy in January 1999.\n\n\n", "id": "7720312", "categories": ["Knox-class frigates", "1969 ships", "Gulf War ships of the United States", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Cold War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States"], "title": "USS Vreeland"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720317", "text": "USS Robert E. Peary (FF-1073)\n\nUSS \"Robert E. Peary\" (FF-1073) was a that saw service with the United States Navy from 1972 until 1992. In 1992, the ship was decommissioned and loaned to the Republic of China. The ship was renamed Chi Yang () and served in the Taiwanese navy until 2015.\n\nThe third US Navy warship ship named for Robert E. Peary was laid down 20 December 1970, by the Lockheed Ship Building and Drydock Company at Seattle, Washington; launched 26 June 1971; sponsored by Miss Josephine Peary; and commissioned 23 September 1972, Comdr. Charles Beasley, USN, in command.\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 Babcock & Wilcox Modified \"D\" Super-heated boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\nFollowing two months of miscellaneous tests and trials along the northern Pacific coast of the United States, she steamed into her home port at Long Beach, California, 8 November. \"Robert E. Peary\" remained in the Long Beach area for one year exactly, departing for WestPac 9 November 1973 and arriving in Subic Bay, Philippine Islands, ten days later.\n\n\"Robert E. Peary\" was decommissioned on 7 August 1992, and loaned to the Republic of China. The destroyer escort was renamed \"Chi Yang\" by the Taiwanese Navy and served with the identification number FF-932. The vessel was commissioned into the Taiwanese Navy on 6 October 1993. On 11 November 1995 the ship was officially struck from the United States navy list. The frigate continued service until 2015, when on 1 May, \"Chi Yang\" and her sister, \"Hai Ying\", were decommissioned at Kaohsiung. The two ships will be cannibalized for parts to keep the remaining six \"Knox\"-class vessels of the Taiwanese Navy in service.\n\n\n", "id": "7720317", "categories": ["1971 ships", "Ships built in Seattle", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Robert E. Peary (FF-1073)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720319", "text": "Henry Kimball Hadley\n\nHenry Kimball Hadley (20 December 1871 – 6 September 1937) was an American composer and conductor.\n\nHadley was born in Somerville, Massachusetts, to a musical family. His father, from whom he received his first musical instruction in violin and piano, was a secondary school music teacher, his mother was active in church music, and his brother Arthur went on to a successful career as a professional cellist. In the Hadley home, the two brothers played string quartets with their father on viola and the composer Henry Gilbert on second violin.\n\nHadley also studied harmony with his father and with Stephen Emery, and, from the age of fourteen, he studied composition with the prominent American composer George Whitefield Chadwick. Under Chadwick's tutelage, Hadley composed many works, including songs, chamber music, a musical, and an orchestral overture.\n\nIn 1893, Hadley toured with the Laura Schirmer-Mapleson Opera Company as a violinist. But he left the tour when the company encountered financial difficulties and was unable to pay his salary.\n\nIn 1894, he travelled to Vienna to further his studies with Eusebius Mandyczewski. Hadley loved the artistic atmosphere of the city, where he could attend countless concerts and operas, and where he occasionally saw Brahms in the cafes. He heard Tchaikovsky's \"Sixth Symphony\" while there, and it made a strong impact on him. During this period Hadley also befriended the German-American conductor Adolf Neuendorff, who gave him advice regarding his compositions.\n\nHe returned to the United States in 1896 and took a position as the musical instructor at St. Paul's Episcopal School for Boys in Garden City, New York, where he worked until 1902. He wrote some of his important early compositions during his time there, including his overture \"In Bohemia\", and his first and second symphonies. He also found prominent conductors to perform them, such as Walter Damrosch, Victor Herbert, John Philip Sousa, and Anton Seidl. Hadley made his own debut as a conductor on 16 January 1900, at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel, leading a program mostly made up of his own works.\n\nIn an age when American orchestras preferred European conductors to home grown ones, Hadley felt that he needed to establish himself in Europe. So he returned to Europe in 1904 to tour, compose, and study with Ludwig Thuille in Munich. It is possible that his studies with Thuille were suggested by Richard Strauss, whom Hadley met shortly after arriving in Europe. Hadley composed his symphonic poem \"Salome\" in 1905, not realizing that Strauss, whom he greatly admired, was working on an opera on the same subject. The work was eventually performed in at least 19 European cities, and he was invited to conduct it, along with his newly finished third symphony, with the Berlin Philharmonic in 1907. In the same year, he obtained a position as an assistant conductor at the opera house in Mainz. In April 1909, his first opera, \"Safié\", premiered in Mainz under his baton.\n\nLater that year he returned to the United States to take a position as conductor of the Seattle Symphony. In 1911, he became the first conductor of the San Francisco Symphony. Hadley encountered some difficulties in San Francisco, where he tried to turn a group of theater musicians into a first rate orchestra. He brought a number of excellent musicians from the east, including his brother Arthur, to be principals in the new orchestra, but this created some resentments among the locals. Nonetheless, by his departure in 1915, the orchestra had made great strides.\n\nHadley returned to New York in 1915, where he made many appearances as a guest conductor, and premiered many of his best known works. In 1918 he married the lyric soprano Inez Barbour, who thereafter sang many of her husband's works. Between 1917 and 1920 three of Hadley's operas received high-profile premieres, including \"Cleopatra's Night\" which bowed at the Metropolitan Opera on 31 January 1920. Hadley conducted some of the performances, becoming the first American composer to conduct his own opera at the Met, and the opera was revived the following season. Several critics judged it the best among the ten American operas to appear at the Met to that point.\n\nIn 1921 Hadley was invited to become the associate conductor of the New York Philharmonic, the first American conductor to hold a full-time post with a major American orchestra. During his years there, his conducting received excellent reviews. As well as occasionally taking the helm for regular Philharmonic concerts, Hadley was assigned to lead stadium concerts during the summer, where he selected many works by American composers. He was eventually asked to regularly select American works for the Philharmonic to perform. He remained in this post until 1927, when he resigned.\n\nIn that same year, Hadley was invited to conduct the first half of the season of the Philharmonic Orchestra of Buenos Aires, the first American to conduct the orchestra (the second half was conducted by legendary Clemens Krauss).\n\nIn 1929, Hadley was invited to become the conductor of the newly formed Manhattan Symphony Orchestra. He led the orchestra for three seasons, including an American work in every concert. He then stepped down due to his frustrations with fundraising for the orchestra in the wake of the stock market crash.\n\nIn 1930, was invited to conduct six concerts with the New Symphony Orchestra of Tokyo. His visit to Asia was met with great enthusiasm, and he composed a new orchestral suite, \"Streets of Pekin\", inspired by a side trip to China, and led its world premiere with the Japanese orchestra.\n\nHenry Hadley was one of the most performed and published American composers of his day. He considered himself first and foremost an orchestral composer, to which his many overtures, symphonic poems, orchestral suites, and symphonies attest. He also wrote brief concertos for both cello (his \"\") and piano (his \"Concertino\", Op. 131).\n\nYet he also wrote a large number of stage works, including several operettas and musicals, along with his five operas. Though his operas \"Azora\" and \"Cleopatra's Night\" received the most attention, his comedy \"Bianca\", which won a prize offered by the American Society of Singers for the best chamber opera in English, perhaps due to its modest demands, received a number of performances during Hadley's lifetime and a few afterwards, even in Japan in the early 1950s.\n\nDuring his years in San Francisco, Hadley made friends among the city's elite, which led him to become a member of the exclusive Bohemian Club, for which he wrote three \"music dramas\", designed to be given a single performance outdoors at the Bohemian Grove in Northern California. These works were very similar to operas, but also contained some spoken dialogue. Hadley later adapted music from these works to be performed as orchestral suites.\n\nHe also wrote a number of chamber works, although \"he had no compelling desire\" to compose it. He produced a violin sonata, two string quartets, and two piano trios. According to Tawa, his most noteworthy chamber effort was the quintet in a minor for piano and strings, Op. 50, written in 1919.\n\nHadley also wrote a large number of cantatas and oratorios, some of them, such as \"Resurgam\", conceived on a very large scale. His work as a song composer is also noteworthy. Villamil claims that \"Of his nearly 200 songs many can still be recommended for their unaffected, buoyant lyricism.\" She praises their \"supple vocal lines\" that are \"sensitive to poetic concerns\" and accompaniments that \"can be inventive and provocative.\" One of his choruses from \"The New Earth\" titled, \"Song of the Marching Men,\" has been recorded. \n\nHadley was also a pioneer in film music. He was invited by Warner Bros. to conduct The New York Philharmonic for the soundtrack music for its 1926 film, \"Don Juan\" with John Barrymore; this was the first feature film with synchronized music and sound effects. He was also filmed with the New York Philharmonic conducting the overture to Wagner's opera \"Tannhäuser\". He wrote a complete original score for the 1927 Barrymore film \"When a Man Loves\".\n\nIn 1933, Hadley founded the National Association for American Composers and Conductors, which exists to this day. In spite of a cancer diagnosis in 1932, he decided to pursue his dream of establishing a summer classical music festival.\n\nIn the Spring of 1934 Hadley scouted the Berkshire Hills of western Massachusetts for a site and support for his seasonal music festival. The region's well known Gilded Age summer colony had not entirely faded in spite of the Great Depression. Hadley's inquiries led to the formidable and cultured Gertrude Robinson Smith. Within a few months they staged three days of concerts in August with Hadley conducting sixty-five members of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. The first concert on August 23 was under the stars before an audience of 3,000, including Mrs. James Roosevelt, the President's mother. For two more summers Hadley and Smith worked to achieve their vision of an permanent seasonal music festival. Initially known as the \"Berkshire Symphonic Music Festival\", it soon became known as Tanglewood.\n\nHadley's cancer surgery was initially successful, and he continued his career as a composer and guest conductor. However, his popularity as a composer began to wane, as popular and especially critical opinion turned against the robust romanticism which Hadley's music embodied. The quick success of the \"Berkshire Philharmonic Festival's\" first three seasons was a dream fulfilled at the end of his life. Hadley's cancer recurred, and he died in New York City on September 6, 1937.\n\nDuring his lifetime he was awarded several honors: an honorary doctorate from Tufts University in 1925, membership in the National Institute of Arts and Letters and the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and the Order of Merit from the French government.\n\nThe majority of Hadley's personal papers and scores are housed in the Music Division of The New York Public Library for the Performing Arts. During his lifetime, Hadley's music was immensely popular, and was a regular part of the repertory of America's top orchestras, and was also performed in Europe. Many legendary conductors performed his music, including Gustav Mahler, Leopold Stokowski, Serge Koussevitzky, and Karl Muck. In recent years his music has been largely neglected, although a few recordings of his music have been issued. An enduring aspect of his legacy is \"Tanglewood\", the realization of his dream to create a classical summer music festival.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n", "id": "7720319", "categories": ["Musicians from Somerville, Massachusetts", "1937 deaths", "American male conductors (music)", "American Romantic composers", "20th-century American conductors (music)", "American classical composers", "19th-century classical composers", "19th-century conductors (music)", "American male classical composers", "Burials at Mount Auburn Cemetery", "20th-century American composers", "Paderewski Prize recipients", "Pupils of George Whitefield Chadwick", "20th-century classical composers", "1871 births", "Classical musicians from Massachusetts", "Deaths from cancer in New York (state)", "20th-century male musicians", "19th-century American composers"], "title": "Henry Kimball Hadley"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720320", "text": "Stuart Madnick\n\nStuart E. Madnick (born 1944) is an American computer scientist, and professor of information technology at the MIT Sloan School of Management and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology school of engineering. He is the director of the MIT Interdisciplinary Consortium for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity ((IC)³).\n\nMadnick has degrees in Electrical Engineering (B.S. and M.S.), Management (M.S.), and Computer Science (Ph.D.) from MIT.\n\nMadnick has been a faculty member at MIT since 1972. He has served as the head of MIT's Information Technologies Group for more than twenty years. He has also been an affiliate member of MIT's Laboratory for Computer Science, a member of the research advisory committee of the International Financial Services Research Center, and a member of the executive committee of the MIT Center for Information Systems Research.\n\nIn 2010, Madnick was the John Norris Maguire Professor of Information Technology at the MIT Sloan School of Management and Professor of Engineering Systems at the MIT School of Engineering.\n\nHe has been a Visiting Professor at Harvard University, Nanyang Technological University (Singapore), University of Newcastle (England), Technion (Israel), and Victoria University (New Zealand).\n\nHis current research interests include connectivity among disparate distributed information systems, database technology, software project management, and the strategic use of information technology. He is co-director of the PROductivity From Information Technology (PROFIT) Initiative and co-Heads the Total Data Quality Management (TDQM) research program.\n\nHe has been the Principal Investigator of a large-scale DARPA-funded research effort on Context Interchange which involves the development of technology that helps organizations to work more cooperatively, coordinated, and collaboratively. As part of this effort, he is the co-inventor on the patents \"Querying Heterogeneous Data Sources over a Network Using Context Interchange\" and \"Data Extraction from World Wide Web Pages.\"\n\nHe has been active in industry, making significant contributions as a key designer and developer of projects such as IBM's VM/370 operating system and Lockheed's DIALOG information retrieval system. He has served as a consultant to many major corporations, such as IBM, AT&T, and Citicorp. He has also been the founder or co-founder of several high-tech firms, including Intercomp (acquired by Logicon), Mitrol (acquired by General Electric's Information Systems Company), Cambridge Institute for Information Systems, founded with John J. Donovan (its successor corporation was named Cambridge Technology Group, founded by John J. Donovan), iAggregate (acquired by ArsDigita, which was subsequently acquired by Red Hat), and now operates a hotel in the 14th century Langley Castle in England. Madnick is involved with the research effort at BMLL Technologies, a Cambridge spin-off working in the field of machine learning on the limit order book.\n\nMadnick is the author or co-author of over 250 books, articles, or reports including the textbook, \"Operating Systems\" (McGraw-Hill), and \"The Dynamics of Software Development\" (Prentice-Hall). He has also contributed chapters to other books, such as \"Information Technology in Action\" (Prentice-Hall). In 1965, he developed the little man computer model that is still widely used to introduce computer architecture concepts. In 1968, Madnick developed SCRIPT, a text markup language for IBM z/VM and z/OS systems, which is still being used as a part of IBM's Document Composition Facility (DCF) with the current version called SCRIPT/VS.\n\n", "id": "7720320", "categories": ["Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni", "Living people", "1944 births", "Harvard University staff", "Massachusetts Institute of Technology faculty"], "title": "Stuart Madnick"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720325", "text": "Paul Schneider (author)\n\nPaul Schneider (born 1962) is an American author of non-fiction books and magazine articles.\n\nPaul Schneider was born 1962 and raised in Amherst, Massachusetts. The son of Peter and Pat Schneider, he graduated from Brown University in 1984. He has contributed to periodicals including the \"New York Times\", O, the Oprah Magazine, \"Audubon\", \"ELLE\", \"Esquire\", \"The New Yorker\", and \"Mirabella\". He lives in West Tisbury, Massachusetts.\n\n\n", "id": "7720325", "categories": ["American non-fiction writers", "Living people", "People from West Tisbury, Massachusetts", "1962 births", "People from Amherst, Massachusetts"], "title": "Paul Schneider (author)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720329", "text": "USS Trippe (FF-1075)\n\nUSS \"Trippe\" (FF-1075) was a of the US Navy, built at Westwego, Louisiana, was commissioned in mid-September 1970. In July 1971, following shakedown training in the Caribbean area and a surveillance mission off Haiti, she entered the Boston Naval Shipyard for overhaul and installation of the Basic Point Defense Missile System, which featured short-range \"Sea Sparrow\" guided missiles in an eight-round launcher on her afterdeck. \"Trippe\" was the Navy's first destroyer-type ship to receive this later-widespread contribution to shipboard protection against air and missile attack. The first months of 1972 were spent testing her new weapons and participating in exercises. In June the ship passed through the Panama Canal en route to Southeast Asian waters, where she provided Vietnam War aircraft carrier escort and naval gunfire support services during July and August. \"Trippe\" then went to the Indian Ocean and Persian Gulf areas, visiting many ports in a region that would see increasing U.S. Navy activity in the coming decades. She returned to the U.S. East Coast in December 1972, after a deployment that had taken her completely around the World.\n\nDuring an overhaul in 1973, \"Trippe\" was refitted to allow her to operate the larger helicopters of the Light Airborne Multi-Purpose System (LAMPS). From August of that year into January 1974 she made her first tour with the Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean. A second cruise to the Indian Ocean and Middle East followed in January–May 1975. Reclassified in mid-year as a frigate, with the new designation FF-1075, she spent the last three months of 1975 and the first five of 1976 in shipyard hands. Trippe returned to the Middle East Force in March–July 1977 and went back to the Mediterranean for her second Sixth Fleet deployment in April–October 1978. The next year she cruised around South American as part of exercise \"Unitas XX\" and operated off West Africa.\n\nThe busy frigate made four more Mediterranean deployments during the following decade, in 1982, 1983, 1985 and 1987. Some of her 1983 tour also involved visiting ports in West Africa, the southern Atlantic, and the Indian Ocean. In the mid-'80s she was also modernized, receiving a seakeeping-enhancing bulwark on her bow and the Close-In Weapons System. The latter's fast shooting radar-controlled 20 mm gun mount was installed on her afterdeck to improve her defenses against cruise missiles.\n\nOn 19 April 1989, \"Trippe\" collided with fleet oiler off the coast of Jacksonville, Florida. \"Trippe\" returned to Charleston SC under her own power. This was the same day as the USS Iowa turret explosion, also part of FLEETEX 3-89.\n\nShe spent most of the late 1980s and the early 1990s operating in the Caribbean Sea area, with counter-narcotics service taking much of her effort. At the end of July 1992, \"Trippe\" was decommissioned and leased to Greece. The Hellenic Navy placed her in commission in April 1993 as \"Thraki\", and she was formally sold to that nation in 2001. A major lube oil fire occurred while at \"Naval Dock Crete\" in 2003 melting the superstructure and destroying the interior of the ship.\n\nUSS \"Trippe\" was named in honor of Lieutenant John Trippe (1785-1810), a hero of the Tripolitan War.\n\n\n", "id": "7720329", "categories": ["Cold War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States", "Vietnam War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States", "Knox-class frigates of the Hellenic Navy", "Knox-class frigates", "1969 ships", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana"], "title": "USS Trippe (FF-1075)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720332", "text": "USS Joseph Hewes (FF-1078)\n\nUSS \"Joseph Hewes\" (FF-1078) was a of the US Navy.\n\nConstructed by Avondale Shipyard, Westwego, Louisiana and laid down 14 May 1969, launched 7 March 1970, and delivered 6 April 1971. She was commissioned 24 April 1971, christened by Mrs. Caroline Groves Gayler.\n\nThe \"Knox\" class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\nOn 15 February 1985, \"Joseph Hewes\" arrived to the scene where the M/V A. Regina, a passenger cargo ferry ran aground on a reef off Isla de Mona. Due to surf conditions, \"Joseph Hewes\" was unable to use its boats to transport the evacuees which had landed on the nearby island. \"Joseph Hewes\" remained on scene to assist and using its helicopter, delivered hot food, soft drinks, and water to the \"A. Regina\" evacuees on Mona Island.\n\nThe ship was decommissioned 30 June 1994 and struck 11 January 1995. She was disposed of through the Security Assistance Program (SAP), transferred, cash sale, ex-US fleet hull foreign military sale, transferred to as Taiwan as \"Lan Yang\" (FF-935).\n\n\n\n", "id": "7720332", "categories": ["1970 ships", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Joseph Hewes (FF-1078)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720335", "text": "USS Bowen\n\nUSS \"Bowen\" (DE-1079/FF-1079) was a of the United States Navy. She was named for Vice Admiral Harold G. Bowen, Sr. (1883–1965), former chief of the Naval Research Laboratory and the Office of Naval Research, who was deceased at the time of her commissioning. Admiral Bowen's son and namesake, Harold G. Bowen, Jr., who also retired as a vice admiral, presided over the U.S. Navy's 1969 inquiry into the \"Pueblo\" incident.\n\n\"Bowen\" was built by Avondale Shipyard at Westwego, Louisiana. \"Bowen\" was laid down on 11 July 1969 and launched on 2 May 1970. The frigate was delivered on 17 May 1971. She was commissioned on 22 May 1971.\n\nCommanded by Commander Arthur Drennan, \"Bowen\" was part of the expeditionary force deployed off the coast of Beirut during the Lebanese Civil War. In early September 1983, United States Marines at the Beirut International Airport came under artillery fire. After repeated warnings, \"Bowen\" was ordered to fire in defense of the Marines. On 8 September 1983, \"Bowen\" opened fire with her 5-inch gun, destroying several artillery pieces and a fire control tower in the mountains, southeast of Beirut. \"Bowen\"s action received international media attention as the ship became the first warship to engage in hostile fire in the Mediterranean Sea since World War II. In all, \"Bowen\" made six firing runs, firing a total of 75 shells at hostile targets. For their actions, \"Bowen\"s crew was awarded the Navy Unit Commendation, the Navy Expeditionary Medal and proudly adopted the slogan \"First to Shoot in Beirut\". In early October 1983, after one month on the \"Gun Line\", \"Bowen\" was relieved by the battleship .\n\n\"Bowen\" was decommissioned on 30 June 1994 and struck from the Naval Vessel Register on 11 January 1995.\n\n\"Bowen\" was disposed of through the Security Assistance Program (SAP), transferred, Foreign Assistance Act (FAA) Section 516, Southern Region Amendment, to Turkey 22 February 2002. She served there as \"Akdeniz\" (F-257) until 2011.\n\n", "id": "7720335", "categories": ["1970 ships", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Bowen"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720337", "text": "State of World Liberty Index\n\nThe State of World Liberty Index was a ranking of countries according to the degree of economic and personal freedoms that their citizens enjoy. It was a compilation of several similar indices created by other organizations. The index's original author Nick Wilson defined freedom as \"the ability for the individual to live their lives as they choose, as long as they do not infringe on the rights of others to do the same.\" \n\nOnly one report (the 2006 State of World Liberty Index, released 12 August 2006) was produced by the State of World Liberty Project and the original website is now defunct. However, Patrick Rhamey, professor in the Department of International Studies at the Virginia Military Institute , has updated the rankings through 2019 using the same concept, with some adjustments to the original method .\n\nThe index has been cited by human rights organisations, governments, pro-democracy groups, news organisations, and others.\n\nThe 2006 State of World Liberty Index was created by combining the rankings of four other indexes of world liberty into one: the \"2005 Economic Freedom of the World\" Index (Fraser Institute), the \"2006 Index of Economic Freedom\" (The Heritage Foundation), the \"2005 Freedom in the World\" index (Freedom House), and the \"2005 Press Freedom Index\" (Reporters Without Borders). \n\nThese reports are used to score countries in three categories: individual freedom, economic freedom, and government size and taxation. These three scores are then averaged to give a country's overall score.\n\nThe 2012-2019 Rankings reproduce the original ranking concept using the same data sources, albeit adjusting the weighting of data to best capture the original intent of measuring \"the ability of the individual to live their lives as they choose.\" Measures are also standardized appropriately given the different scales used across indices and the government burden category was condensed into the broader indicator of economic freedom.\n\nBeginning in 2018, the ranking also includes a measure of how Conservative or Progressive a state, defined as whether a state regulates either social or economic issues more heavily.\n\nIn the 2019 index, New Zealand is ranked most free overall, while North Korea is last. Hong Kong was ranked most free in economic liberty, while Norway was ranked most free in the social liberty category.\n", "id": "7720337", "categories": ["Works about freedom of expression", "Civil rights and liberties", "International rankings"], "title": "State of World Liberty Index"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720342", "text": "USS Paul\n\nUSS \"Paul\" (FF-1080) was a built for the United States Navy by Avondale Shipyard, Westwego, Louisiana.\n\nThe \"Knox\" class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\n\"Paul\" was laid down 12 September 1969, launched 20 June 1970 and delivered 23 July 1971. She was commissioned 14 August 1971, decommissioned 14 August 1992 and struck 11 January 1995. \"Paul\" was disposed of through the Security Assistance Program (SAP), transferred, grant aid, ex-US fleet hull, to Turkey 9 January 2000.\n\n", "id": "7720342", "categories": ["1970 ships", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Paul"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720350", "text": "USS Aylwin (FF-1081)\n\nUSS \"Aylwin\" (FF-1081) was a United States Navy . She was the fourth vessel named for John Cushing Aylwin. \"Aylwin\" was laid down on 13 November 1969 at Westwego, La., by the Avondale Shipyard, Inc.; launched on 29 August 1970; sponsored by Mrs. Charles K. Duncan; and commissioned on 18 September 1971 at the Boston Naval Shipyard, Comdr. Dan E. Fenn in command.\n\nEarly in December, the destroyer escort sailed for her home port, Norfolk, Virginia, and arrived there on 10 December. After spending the holidays in port, \"Aylwin\" headed for Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, for shakedown training. While en roue, \"Aylwin\" stopped at Andros Island, Bahamas, for weapons testing. Arriving at Guantanamo Bay on 24 January 1972, the ship began four weeks of intensive training. She visited Santo Domingo for a liberty call before returning to Norfolk for post-shakedown availability. Late in October, the vessel participated in LAN-TREDEX 2-72 and then made final preparations for her first overseas deployment. On 1 December, \"Aylwin\" departed Norfolk to join the 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean. Her first stop was at El Ferrol, Spain. Departing that port on 13 December, she transited the Strait of Gibraltar and proceeded to Athens, Greece, where she spent the holiday season.\n\nOn 6 January 1973, \"Aylwin\" got underway for antisubmarine warfare (ASW) operations to be held in the eastern Mediterranean in conjunction with Task Force (TF) 60. The ship pulled into Golfe-Juan, France, on 17 January, then continued on to Gibraltar. Next came ASW operations in the eastern Mediterranean followed by a visit to Naples, Italy, for a two-week tender availability. The destroyer escort then visited Dubrovnik, Yugoslavia. On 17 February, she participated in NATO Exercise \"National Week,\" held in conjunction with British, Italian, and Turkish warships. She arrived at Alanya, Turkey, on 28 February and then stopped at Athens; La Maddalena, Italy; Alicante, Barcelona, and Valencia, Spain; Tunis, Tunisia; Villefranche, Cannes, and Toulon, France; and Gibraltar. On 20 June, \"Aylwin\" got underway once more for the United States. She paused at the Naval Weapons Station, Yorktown, Virginia, on 27 June, to unload her weapons and returned to Norfolk the next day ending an absence of seven months. The ship was dry-docked from 19 July to 20 August. She received the light air multi-purpose system (LAMPS) modification during a yard period lasting through 26 October. A tender availability came in November, and December found the ship in a stand-down period.\n\nThe destroyer escort sailed on 19 February 1974 for refresher training at Guantanamo Bay. While there, she took part in ASW exercises in addition to testing her new LAMPS equipment. She returned to Norfolk on 27 April to make final preparations for her second overseas deployment. On 17 June, \"Aylwin\" set sail for the Mideast and the Indian Ocean. Her first stop was Roosevelt Roads, Puerto Rico, where she held gunnery exercises. She then proceeded to Trinidad for a refueling stop. \"Aylwin\" next put into Recife, Brazil, for a brief liberty period.\n\nShe got underway again on the 28th to cross the Atlantic and arrived at Freetown, Sierra Leone, on 2 July. \"Aylwin\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s next stop was Luanda, Angola. Her visit there was curtailed by an outbreak of violence associated with that country's bid for independence from Portugal. The vessel weighed anchor on 13 July, sailed around the Cape of Good Hope, and entered the Indian Ocean. \"Aylwin\" arrived in Port Louis, Mauritius, on 26 July, and continued on to Reunion Island on 31 July. Her next stop was Moroni, Great Comoro Island. On 6 August, she arrived at Mombasa, Kenya. The destroyer escort got underway again on the 17th and spent the next two months patrolling the Gulf of Aden, the Red Sea, and the Persian Gulf. She made brief stops at Djibouti, Afars and Issas; Masirah, Oman; Bahrain; Bandar Abbas, Iran; and Massawa, Ethiopia.\n\nAfter final calls at Mombasa and Port Louis, \"Aylwin\" sailed on 8 November to return to the United States. She retraced her earlier course and made stops at Recife, Brazil, and Roosevelt Roads before reaching Norfolk on 13 December.\n\nThe ship returned to sea in mid-February 1975 with a series of exercises in the Virginia capes area. On 17 March, she sailed from Norfolk, bound for the Narragansett Bay operating area to conduct a LAMPS test. During the cruise, she visited New York City and Albany, N.Y., before returning to Norfolk on 28 March. The next two months were occupied by a series of inspections. On 12 June, \"Aylwin\" sailed for Newport, R.I., to conduct a midshipman training cruise. While on this assignment, \"Aylwin\" was officially reclassified a frigate and redesignated FF-1081 on 1 July. She returned to Norfolk on 3 July. The ship sailed on 7 August for Guantanamo Bay and the fleet exercise CARIBEX. The next day, she experienced mechanical difficulties and proceeded to the Charleston Naval Shipyard for repairs. After two more attempts to sail to the Caribbean, \"Aylwin\" turned back to Norfolk on 27 August. After a month of repairs and preparations, the frigate sailed on 3 October for the Mediterranean. She reached Rota, Spain, on 13 October and was scheduled to take part in exercises. However, a boiler problem necessitated a run to Naples, Italy, for a two-week availability alongside tender . With the repairs completed, \"Aylwin\" set sail for Toulon, France, on 2 November to join NATO forces in Exercise \"Isle d'Or.\" Following this operation, \"Aylwin\" arrived in Palermo, Sicily, on 20 November. Additional visits were made at Athens, Greece; Souda Bay, Crete; and Kusadasi, Turkey. \"Aylwin\" returned to Naples on 22 December 1975 for the Christmas holidays.\n\nOn 7 January 1976, \"Aylwin\" got underway with Task Group (TG) 60.1 for ASW exercises. She then sailed to the ports of Piraeus, Greece; Souda Bay; Bodrum, Turkey; Catania, Sicily; Valencia, Spain; Palma, Majorca; and Gaeta and Genoa, Italy. \"Aylwin\" briefly stopped once again at Rota on 17 April, then left the Mediterranean, bound for Norfolk where she spent May and early June in leave and upkeep. A week of ASW exercises came in mid-June. On 26 July, \"Aylwin\" proceeded to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where she entered drydock at the naval shipyard on 8 August for overhaul.\n\nThe frigate departed Philadelphia on 6 June 1977 and steamed to her new home port, Charleston, S.C. There, she became a unit of Destroyer Squadron 20. During the next six weeks, \"Aylwin\" conducted local operations; and, on 18 July, she headed for the Caribbean and refresher training. She was back in Charleston on 20 September and spent the rest of the year in training exercises and inspections.\n\n\"Aylwin\" put to sea on 3 January 1978 to provide submarines and services as a target as they sharpened their hunting skills. The next day, she was directed to proceed to the Key West, Florida, area to conduct surveillance operations and relieve destroyer . She finished these duties on 10 January and arrived back at Charleston on the 11th. The next three months were devoted to local operations and preparations for overseas movement. \"Aylwin\" rendezvoused with other units of Cruiser-Destroyer Group 12 off Bermuda on 7 April and sailed across the Atlantic to Malaga, Spain. A series of ASW exercises followed; and, on 29 April, the frigate moored alongside tender at La Maddalena, Sardinia, for an availability. On 14 May, \"Aylwin\" put to sea, bound for Souda Bay. There, she joined NATO forces for Exercise \"Dawn Patrol\". Following that operation, the ship anchored at Skiathos, Greece, on 1 June. Her other ports of call during the cruise were Barcelona, Spain; Golfo di Palmas, Sardinia; St. Tropez France, Alexandria, Egypt, Haifa, Israel, Piraeus, Greece, Palma, Mallorca and Toulon, France. The last exercise of the deployment was Exercise \"Display Determination,\" which lasted from 26 September to 8 October. Following a final stop at Malaga, \"Aylwin\" set sail on 14 October for Charleston. She arrived at her home port 11 days later and spent the remainder of 1978 there undergoing upkeep.\n\nThe ship devoted January and February 1979 to training and inspection and, on 26 February, began a restricted availability. She got underway again on 6 April for a dependents' cruise and, 10 days later, proceeded to Puerto Rico for refresher training. From 1 to 8 May, \"Aylwin\" took part in SUBASWEX 3-79. After completing this exercise, she sailed to New York City for the celebration of Armed Forces Week. The frigate returned to Charleston late in May and commenced a series of tests and inspections prior to beginning her next overseas deployment.\n\nOn 1 August, \"Aylwin\" got underway for another Mideast cruise. She made refueling stops at Bermuda and Ponta del Gada before reaching Rota on 11 August. From Rota, she headed to Malaga and then continued eastward. She passed through the Suez Canal on 19 August and arrived in Jidda, Saudi Arabia, on the 22nd. She moved south on 1 September to the Gulf of Aden, thence steamed around the Arabian peninsula and through the Strait of Hormuz to reach Bahrain. The frigate got underway on the 4th to operate in the Persian Gulf and pulled into Dammam, Saudi Arabia, on 16 September for two days of liberty. \"Aylwin\" took part in a joint exercise with Saudi forces, then stopped at Bahrain for refueling. She proceeded to the Seychelles Islands on 8 October, but her stay was shortened by civil unrest. On 13 October, \"Aylwin\" sailed for Djibouti. From there, she headed into the Gulf of Aden to conduct an exercise with warships of the French Navy on 22 October.\n\n\"Aylwin\" steamed eastward and then north around the Arabian peninsula to pass through the Strait of Hormuz, where she participated in an exercise with naval forces from Oman. The frigate then sailed to Bahrain for a two-week upkeep period. That respite ended abruptly on 4 November when she got underway only two hours after learning that militant Iranian students had stormed into the United States embassy in Tehran and made captives of American diplomatic and military personnel. The frigate headed back into the Persian Gulf for surveillance and patrol duties that lasted until 9 December. On that day, \"Aylwin\" began the long voyage home. She paused at Djibouti to refuel, then sailed north, transited the Suez Canal, and continued across the Mediterranean to Rota, Spain, where she arrived on 23 December. After celebrating Christmas in that Spanish port, \"Aylwin\" sailed for Charleston on 28 December 1979. Following a stormy Atlantic crossing, she stood into Charleston, S.C., on 7 January 1980.\n\nThe frigate completed post-deployment stand-down on 6 February and spent the next two weeks making minor repairs. On the 19th, \"Aylwin\" returned to sea to conduct drills with Atlantic Fleet submarines. She carried out such routine training missions along the eastern seaboard until the end of April. On the 28th, the warship departed Charleston and set course for Brooklyn, N.Y., where she entered the yard at the Coastal Drydock & Repair Corp. for a major overhaul. The repairs — which included major work to her main propulsion plant, a period in drydock, and many lesser modifications — lasted a year almost exactly. She conducted sea trials on 29 and 30 April 1981 and returned to Charleston on 3 May 1981.\n\nSoon thereafter, \"Aylwin\" embarked upon a lengthy period of operations out of Charleston. Those operations consisted of a series of exercises preparatory to certification in the operation of her propulsion system and of her varied ordnance systems. Refresher training in the West Indies followed qualification preparations early in September. The frigate concluded refresher training late in October and reentered her home port on the 25th. Duty out of Charleston continued through the end of 1981 into February 1982. Late in February, \"Aylwin\" suffered damage to her high-pressure turbine that interrupted her training schedule until mid-April. The warship resumed exercises on 12 April with READEX 5-82 in preparation for a deployment to the Mediterranean planned for June.\n\nOn 8 June 1982, the frigate steamed out of Charleston on her way across the Atlantic. In spite of damage she suffered in a collision with support ship during an underway refueling operation, \"Aylwin\" continued on to Rota, Spain, and arrived there on the 19th. She entered the Mediterranean Sea on the 20th,but ended up in Marseilles France for shipyard repair. and joined a carrier task group built around carrier . The warship's arrival in the Mediterranean came in the immediate aftermath of the 6 June Israeli drive into Lebanon against the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) based there. Serious though conditions in Lebanon were, \"Aylwin\" carried out normal 6th Fleet operations, including a freedom of navigation mission across Libyan president Muammar al-Gaddafi's \"Line of Death\" into the Gulf of Sidra, until the latter part of August. By then, American diplomat Philip Habib had defused the situation in Lebanon by extracting an agreement from the contending parties which called for the departure of the PLO from Lebanese soil. \"Aylwin\" served as escort for two of the merchant ships providing transportation. On 21 and 22 August, she convoyed the Greek ship from Beirut to Cyprus with the first contingent of PLO evacuees. Returning to Beirut on the 23d, the frigate shepherded thence through the Suez Canal to Aden where the ships arrived on 29 August. Reversing course that same day, \"Aylwin\" stopped in Djoubti, Djoubti to refuel and take on supplies before retransiting the canal and headed for a liberty call at Palma de Mallorca, Spain.\n\nThe warship put to sea again on 14 September to conduct antisubmarine warfare (ASW) exercises in the western Mediterranean. That same day, the Lebanese president-elect Bashir Gemayel lost his life to assassins. That event and the massacres it sparked prompted France, Italy, and the United States to reconstitute the multinational force that had overseen the PLO evacuation. As a consequence, \"Aylwin\" broke off from Operation \"Display Determination\" and hurried east in company with carrier to support the reentry of the multinational force into Lebanon. Except for an 11-day visit to Gaeta, Italy, in mid-October, for repairs and liberty, the frigate patrolled the waters off Lebanon until the middle of November.\n\nFollowing a liberty call at Piraeus, Greece, between the 18th and the 21st, \"Aylwin\" headed for the strategic Straits of the Bosporus and the Dardanelles. Passing through the Straits, she conducted training evolutions with destroyer in the Black Sea before calling at Istanbul, Turkey, on 26 November. The warship passed through the Straits again on the 28th and conducted operations south of Crete until 7 December when frigate relieved her. \"Aylwin\" then laid in a course for Rota, Spain, on the first leg of the voyage back to the United States. The stop at Rota took up two days, and, on 12 December, she embarked upon the Atlantic passage in company with 15 other Navy ships. \"Aylwin\" reached Charleston on 22 December.\n\nFor most of the first five months of 1983, the frigate carried out no operational activity. Post-deployment standdown lasted well into January while an extended maintenance period occupied February and the better part of March. On 23 and 24 March, she made an overnight passage from Charleston to Norfolk where she entered the drydock on the 24th. Work on her hull and sonar dome took up the next five weeks after which \"Aylwin\" returned to Charleston to prepare for a deployment to northern European waters.\n\nOn 29 May, she stood out of Charleston on her way to participate in Operation \"United Effort/Ocean Safari '83\" which included operations in the Baltic Sea. During that tour of duty the warship also made port calls at Portsmouth, England, on two occasions, and at Malmo, Sweden, and Aalborg, Denmark, once each. \"Aylwin\" returned to Charleston on 25 July and stayed there until the beginning of September. The frigate put to sea again on 2 September and headed south for a four-week assignment in the Caribbean Sea that included calls at a number of tropical ports that include the Bahamas, St. Kitts, Antigua, Venezuela, and Colombia. Back in Charleston on 4 October, she spent the remainder of 1983 engaged in operations along the east coast.\n\nDuring the first three months of 1984, \"Aylwin\" left Charleston only once, as part of a task group built around to conduct a readiness exercise during the first three weeks of February. Otherwise, she carried out maintenance and repair work that included the removal of her basic point defense surface missile system and its replacement with the phalanx close-in weapons system for antiaircraft defense. Between her return to Charleston from the readiness exercise late in February to the beginning of April, the warship concentrated on preparations for her impending assignment to the 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean Sea. She stood out of Charleston on 2 April in company with , , and . \"Aylwin\" and her three traveling companions made the Atlantic passage in 10 days and joined the 6th Fleet on 13 April. In the course of her six-month tour of duty in the Mediterranean, the frigate participated in two NATO exercises, a number of exercises with units of the 6th Fleet, and the ubiquitous independent ASW evolution. She punctuated her training duties with port visits throughout the \"middle sea.\" Relieved by at Tangier, Morocco, \"Aylwin\" got underway to return home on 24 October.\n\nShe arrived back in Charleston on 2 November and, after a somewhat abbreviated leave and upkeep period, entered the Charleston Naval Shipyard on the 26th for a three-month availability that stretched into four. On 8 April 1985, \"Aylwin\" returned to sea to carry out refresher training in the vicinity of Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The frigate completed that mission in mid-May and spent a week in Charleston before heading back to the West Indies on 24 May on a midshipman training cruise. She concluded her second cruise to the tropics at Charleston on 12 June and launched into a routine of inspections, upkeep, and minor repairs. During the first part of August, \"Aylwin\" voyaged to Vieques Island, near Puerto Rico, for shore bombardment drills.\n\nBack in Charleston on 12 August, she began preparations to visit northern European waters and the Baltic Sea. She embarked upon that two-month assignment on 26 August participating in Exercise \"Ocean Safari '85 during the Atlantic crossing. After a call at Dublin, Ireland, between 22 and 27 September, the frigate sailed to the Baltic Sea. She stopped at Copenhagen, Denmark, and at Kiel, Germany, before carrying out training operations in the Baltic Sea. \"Aylwin\" made a final European port visit at Aalborg, Denmark, from 21 to 27 October and then got underway to return to the United States. She arrived back at Charleston on 6 November. Aylwin stayed at Charleston through the end of 1985 and for the first month of 1986. She went back to sea on 3 February 1986 to participate in FLEETEX 2-86 as part of the ASW screen for .\n\nThe frigate returned to Charleston on 25 February and began two weeks of feverish activity preparing for an early deployment to the Mediterranean Sea. On 10 March, she stood out of Charleston in company with \"USS America\" once again and shaped a course for the Strait of Gibraltar. \"Aylwin\" and her colleagues passed into the Mediterranean on the 19th and became part of the 6th Fleet. Five days later, the warship joined in another freedom of navigation operation near Muammar al-Gaddafi's so-called \"Line of Death.\" That evolution ended on the 28th, and the frigate followed it up with port visits to the Sicilian ports Taormina and Catania. She then conducted ASW operations south of Malta until 13 April when she rejoined \"America\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s screen. \"Aylwin\" provided antiaircraft and antisubmarine protection for \"America\" while the carrier's air group combined with Air Force bombers to strike targets in Libya in retaliation for apparent Libyan involvement in terrorist attacks carried out against United States' citizens.\n\nThe latest Libyan interlude ended on 27 April and, after another port call at Taormina, the frigate resumed more conventional 6th Fleet activities. In the ensuing weeks, she took part in two major exercises, and her crew enjoyed liberty in a number of ports. \"Aylwin\" completed turnover formalities at Tangier, Morocco, once again and got underway for the United States on 31 August. The warship reentered Charleston on 10 September. Except for two brief periods underway in December, she spent the rest of 1986 in port.\n\nThe \"Aylwin\" started 1987 home ported in Charleston, SC. Upon completion of the overhaul in June 1988, Aylwin steamed north to her new homeport of Newport, Rhode Island. Settled in Newport, Aylwin began a series of exercises and intensive training to help her prepare for an upcoming deployment. She spent eight weeks on a shakedown cruise in Guantanamo bay, Cuba going through refresher training before participating in US law enforcement operations with the US Coast Guard in November 1988. On 31 May 1989, Aylwin started her eighth major deployment and participated in eastern Mediterranean contingency operations in support of national objectives. Port visits to Cartagena, Spain; Alicante, Spain; Theoule-sur-Mer, France; Marseille, France; Naples, Italy; and Haifa, Israel. During this period Aylwin was nominated for the navy expeditionary medal. She returned to Newport, on 10 November 1989. In January 1990 USS Aylwin arrived in Boston for a four-month repair period. After five weeks of refresher training and law enforcement operations, Aylwin was ready for her ninth and final deployment. On 1 July 1991, Aylwin departed for UNITAS XXXII under the command of USCOMSOLANT circumnavigating the South American continent. While traveling throughout South America, Aylwin visited nine countries, crossed the equator and transited the straights of Magellan. Aylwin returned home to Newport on 13 December 1991.\n\n\"Aylwin\" was decommissioned 15 May 1992 at Newport, and struck on 11 January 1995 to be disposed of through the Security Assistance Program (SAP), transferred, Foreign Assistance Act (FAA) Section 516, Southern Region Amendment, to Taiwan on 29 April 1998 as \"Ning Yang\" (FF-938).\n", "id": "7720350", "categories": ["1970 ships", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Aylwin (FF-1081)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720354", "text": "USS Cook (FF-1083)\n\nUSS \"Cook\" (FF-1083) was a built for the United States Navy by Avondale Shipyard, Bridge City, Louisiana. \n\nThe ship was named after Lieutenant Commander Wilmer P. Cook USN, graduate from the U.S. Naval Academy on June 7, 1956. He was the pilot of an A-4E Skyhawk from Attack Squadron 155 on board the USS Coral Sea (CVA-43). On December 22, 1967, LCdr. Cook launched from the carrier on a combat mission over North Vietnam. His was the only aircraft assigned to the mission. According to the U.S. Navy, because no other aircraft accompanied LCdr Cook that day, it is not known exactly what happened to him on that day. LCdr. Cook was lost, but no details are available. He was classified Killed In Action/Body Not Recovered, even though no information explaining this determination is included in public records available from the U.S. Navy. The last known position of Cook and his aircraft was over Ha Tinh Province, approximately 20 miles southeast of the city of Vinh.\n\nThe \"Knox\" class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\nHer keel was laid 20 March 1970, she was launched 23 January 1971 and delivered 9 December 1971. \"Cook\" was commissioned 18 December 1971 and decommissioned 30 April 1992. She was struck 11 January 1995 and disposed of through the Security Assistance Program (SAP), and transferred to Taiwan 29 September 1999. She served the Republic of China Navy (ROCN) as the \"Hai-Yang\" (FFG-936) with additional re-modifications and retired May 2015 .\n\n\n", "id": "7720354", "categories": ["1971 ships", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Cook (FF-1083)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720361", "text": "USS McCandless\n\nUSS \"McCandless\" (FF-1084) was a of the US Navy. Commissioned in 1972, she served for 22 years before being decommissioned as a training frigate, and sold to the Turkish Navy as TCG \"Trakya\" (F-254). She also participated in Operation Desert Storm in 1991.\n\nThe \"Knox\" class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\n\"McCandless\"s first deployment was a cruise to the Middle East that began in August 1973, and lasted through January of the following year. Subsequent to this initial voyage overseas, \"McCandless\" adopted a regular schedule of deployments which took her to the waters of the North Atlantic, Mediterranean, Caribbean, and Persian Gulf. \"McCandless\"s last tactical missions were in support of Operation Desert Storm—a US-led coalition force of 34 nations against Iraq in response to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait— from January through May 1990, and June through December 1991. \"McCandless\" was awarded the Kuwait Liberation Medal by Kuwait for her efforts during these deployments.\n\n31 December 1991 marked \"McCandless\"s assignment to the Naval Reserve Force, Atlantic (Norfolk, Virginia) where she was reclassified as a training frigate (FFT-1084). \"McCandless\" was one of only eight ships of her class subject to this redesignation. Simultaneously decommissioned and leased to Turkey under the new name of TCG \"Trakya\" (F-254) on 6 May 1994, \"McCandless\" was struck from the Naval Vessel Register on 11 January. Turkey purchased the vessel in February 2002. She was decommissioned in 2003 and scrapped.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7720361", "categories": ["1971 ships", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS McCandless"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720371", "text": "USS Donald B. Beary\n\nUSS \"Donald B. Beary\" (FF-1085) was a built for the United States Navy\n\nThe \"Knox\" class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\nThe ship was leased to Turkey in 1994 and subsequently sold to them, as the \"Tepe\"-class frigate TCG \"Karadeniz\" (F-255). She was decommissioned and scrapped in 2006.\n\nReferences : USS \"Donald B. Beary\" on NavSource.org\n\n\n", "id": "7720371", "categories": ["1971 ships", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Donald B. Beary"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720374", "text": "Compliance and ethics program\n\nSince about 1970, several major business and government excesses were seen in the United States to generate subsequent legal, public and political reaction. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act is perhaps the legislation with the most significant influence in the development of ethics and compliance programs; similar ideas are encoded in the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations, and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines.\n\nThe Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) marked the early beginnings of compliance programs in the United States. In the mid-1970s, United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) investigations discovered that a significant number of American companies participated in bribery overseas. “Over 400 U.S. Companies admitted to making questionable or illegal payments to foreign government officials, politicians and political parties.” (United States Department of Justice 2006) One of the most infamous cases of its time was the admission by a Lockheed executive, to the Multinational Corporations Subcommittee of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, that Lockheed had paid bribes in the amount of $22 million to Japanese government officials in the course of trying to sell its aircraft. This revelation came on the heels of the U.S. Government providing Lockheed with a $250 million emergency loan guarantee (Hishikawa 2003).\n\nIn an effort to restore faith in American business, in December 1977 the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act was signed into law. This anti-bribery provision makes it “unlawful for a U.S. person, and certain foreign issuers of securities, to make a corrupt payment to a foreign official for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business for or with, or directing business to, any person.” (United States Department of Justice 2006) The law also requires publicly traded companies “to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent the company’s transactions. Additionally, it requires these companies to have an adequate systems of internal accounting controls.” (United States Department of Justice 2006)\n\nFollowing the passage of the FCPA, in 1988, the Congress became concerned that American companies were operating at a disadvantage because their foreign counterparts were, as a matter of practice, paying bribes to foreign officials and deducting those bribes as business expenses on their taxes. (United States Department of Justice 2006) Subsequently, the Executive Branch began negotiations with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), a 34-member nation coalition consisting of the United States and 33 other countries, to enact legislation similar to FCPA. In 1997, the OCED signed the Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions. (http://www.oecd.org/document/21/0,2340,en_2649_34859_2017813_1_1_1_1,00.html)\n\nThis regulation requires member nations to designate the payment of bribes to foreign offices as a crime and to follow the rules and regulations that govern bribery in international transactions. The U.S. ratified this convention and enacted implementing legislation in 1998. At this time, the FCPA was amended to include territorial jurisdiction over foreign companies and nationals. A foreign company or person is now subject to the FCPA, if the company or person either directly or indirectly through agents, engages in acts which further the facilitation of corrupt payments taking place within the territory of the United States.\n\nIn response to the FCPA and its requirement to implement internal control programs, in 1985 a private-sector initiative was formed called the National Committee on Fraudulent Financial Reporting (commonly known as the Treadway Commission). This Commission recommended that its organizational sponsors work together to develop guidance on internal controls. Subsequently, the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) was formed, and in conjunction with the CPA firm Coopers & Lybrand, COSO authored and published in 1992 the “Internal Control-Integrated Framework\". This framework has become the de facto standard in the accounting industry for auditing, evaluating and monitoring internal control systems.\n\nThe COSO Internal Control-Integrated Framework is now widely used by most organizations as the basis for “establishing and maintaining an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting” ( 15 USC § 7262) and for the assessment of control effectiveness under section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley.\n\nIn 1984 Congress passed the Sentencing Reform Act, which created a set of mandatory federal sentencing guidelines (Campbell & Bemporad 2006). As part of the Act, the United States Sentencing Commission was formed and delegated the responsibility “to provide “certainty” and “fairness” in sentencing, avoiding “unwarranted sentencing disparities” while “maintaining sufficient flexibility to permit individualized sentencing when warranted by mitigating or aggravating factors (Campbell & Bemporad 2006).”\n\nOn May 1, 1991, as an extension of the Sentencing Reform Act, the United States Sentencing Commission submitted to Congress the Federal Sentencing Guidelines for Organizations] (FSGO), a set of standards that govern the sentences federal judges impose on organizations convicted of federal crimes. Enacted on November 1, 1991, core to the guidelines was the Commission’s intent to “prevent and deter organizational wrongdoing” through its design of the organizational sentencing guidelines. These guidelines describe the elements of an organization’s compliance and ethics program that are required to be considered for eligibility for a reduced sentence if convicted. In general, the FSGO require an organization to establish standards to guide its employees and agents. These standards must reflect government regulations and industry standards and apply to almost all types of organizations including corporations, partnerships, unions, non-profit organizations and trusts.\n\nIn 2004, the United States Sentencing Commission voted to amend its existing organization guidelines to make the criteria for an effective compliance and ethics program more stringent. Two major standards were identified in the amended guidelines. The amended guidelines stated the need for directors and executives to take an active role in the management of its compliance and ethics program and the importance of promoting an organizational culture that is compliant with the law and demonstrates ethical culture. The amended guidelines outline minimum requirements for an effective compliance and ethics program and the amended FSGO has become synonymous with an effective compliance program.\n\nThe FCPA, Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines represent just a fraction of the standards and requirements organizations need to consider today when developing and implementing their compliance programs. “Since the passage of SOX, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), NASDAQ, and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), have all proposed and implemented new rules relating to compliance programs (Martin 2004).” Organizations today are increasingly accountable to mandated laws, regulations and standards on a number of dimensions, which include geographical/regional considerations, as well as industry and functional discipline concerns. These regulations and standards apply to a variety of financial and non-financial areas. Adding to this complexity are the “voluntary” boundaries, which organizations have individually established such as organizational commitments, values, and contractual obligations. As a result of these dynamics, organizations at the very core of their business strategy need to establish the capacity and the capability to effectively address the conditions mandated by these external requirements and internally generated operating principles while still meeting their business objectives.\n\nHistory set the tone for increasing regulations and rising standards. Over time, organizations will need to be more proactive in anticipating and addressing these considerations while simultaneously protecting and building the enterprise. More and more organizations will need to translate, integrate and simplify these various standards and requirements into a cohesive approach.\n\nDesigning an effective compliance and ethics program requires implementing a detailed plan that will make sure the business achieves their ethics objectives. The organization must have ways of managing, evaluating, and controlling business ethics and compliance programs. There are five items which can affect the success of the compliance and ethics program: (1) the content of the company's code of ethics, (2) the frequency of communication regarding the ethical code and program, (3) the quality of communication, (4) senior management's ability to successfully incorporate ethics into the organization, (5) and local management's ability to do the same.\n\nCompliance and ethics program with regulatory requirements and the organization’s own policies are a critical component of effective risk management. An organizations program is recommended to include monitoring and auditing systems that allow detection of criminal and other improper context to be found easily. Maintaining the compliance and ethics program is one of the most important ways for an organization to maintain its ethical health, support its long-term prosperity, and preserve and promote its values.\n\nA compliance and ethics program supports the organization’s business objectives, identifies the boundaries of legal and ethical behavior, and establishes a system to alert management when the organization is getting close to (or crossing) a boundary or approaching an obstacle that prevents the achievement of a business objective.\n\nManagement should continuously improve its compliance and ethics program. This will enable it to better prevent, detect, and respond to similar misfeasance and/or malfeasance in the future.\n\nThe compliance and ethics program should strive to deliver tangible benefits and outcomes to the organization. Every organization is unique and has its own objectives. As such, several objectives of the compliance and ethics program will be unique as well. There are a few universal program outcomes/objectives that a compliance and ethics capability should deliver. These include an enhanced culture of trust, accountability and integrity; prevention of noncompliance, preparation for when (not “if”) noncompliance occurs, protection (to the extent possible) from negative consequences, detection of noncompliance, response to noncompliance and improvement of the program to better prevent, protect, prepare, detect and respond to noncompliance.\n\nAn important aspect of a high-performing program, and one that cannot be overstated, is enhancing an ethical culture. A strong ethical culture that provides important benefits would including a “safety net” for when formal controls are weak or absent, and an open environment of trust, ingredients that help drive overall workforce productivity.\n\nA well-designed compliance and ethics program is only half the picture. Critical to its success and its ability to meet the challenges of constant change, increasing complexity, rapidly evolving threats, the need for continuous improvement requires organizations to have the commitment of both senior management and the board, adequate authorization and funding, the appropriate tools to facilitate measurement and rolling-up information, comprehensive training on the measurement process and an early socialization of approach.\n\nImplementation is often the most difficult aspect of any program. This is the juncture where most failure occurs. However, if executed well, it can represent the biggest opportunity for positive influence on the organization’s performance and culture.\n\nThe engaged involvement of key stakeholders is critical to a successful implementation or major enhancement of a compliance and ethics program, i.e. the dialogue and agreement up front, by all the major parties, regarding the objectives, goals, and overall purpose of the program will be critical to the project’s eventual impact. By working together, compliance and ethics officers, executive management, and the board can help ensure a compliance and ethics program not only contributes to the improvement of the organization’s governance practices but the success of its company’s strategy as well.\n\nOne of most important conditions for an ethics program to be effectively implemented is the existence of a feeling of trust from the employees toward the organization. Organizations that present high levels of misconduct will experience lack of trust from its employees, which possible will cause high turnover among its workforce.\n\nIntegrate compliance and ethics - Address the “letter of the law” while promoting the “spirit of the law”. For some companies this means making a breach of company policy as serious as breaching laws, resulting in “internal” standards being as important as ‘mandatory’ standards.\n\nEmbed compliance and ethics risk management processes into the business - Organizations must systematically assess and prioritize present and emerging compliance and ethics risks. Such analysis should take into account the organization’s culture, compliance and ethics history, as well as industry issues. Business processes should incorporate compliance and ethics program needs. Boards should routinely discuss these risks, and how they are addressed, with management.\n\nDemonstrate leadership - The board should ensure senior management consistently communicates and models the organization’s values and behavioral expectations identified in the compliance and ethics program.\n\nRequire accountability and ownership - In order to have the compliance and ethics program “make a difference”, it should foster a corporate culture that places responsibility on individuals for their actions and motivates everyone. The board and management should ensure employees have appropriate training and information and should participate in such training themselves.\n\nProvide an open culture - Issues and problems should be, and in some cases are, required by law to be investigated and proactively managed to resolution. Unethical or illegal behavior should be addressed promptly. Employees must be required to raise and resolve violations of compliance or ethics standards. To do so, they must feel confident that they can take action without fear of retaliation. Such fears have been reduced, but not eliminated, with the introduction of the “whistleblower” protections of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Canadian equivalents. The board should inquire of management the steps they are taking to create this open culture.\n\nMeasure performance and results - Compliance and ethics processes and results should be monitored and measured. Objective data should support evaluations that are more subjective. Evaluation results should provide the basis for continually improving the program.\n\nBy using accurate, timely data on the organization’s performance, managers know whether they are moving the entity closer to its objectives. Measuring compliance and ethics program performance help organizations gauge their improvement and learn whether the company's tactics are contributing to the success of the company's strategy. Keeping the board informed is a critical activity and robust performance reporting facilitates that important effort too. An organization’s compliance and ethics program should be measured like any other critical capability.\n\nThere are numerous benefits and challenges to measuring the performance of a program. A well-known maxim is \"what gets measured gets done.” The compliance and ethics program and capability is no different.\n\nThe Open Compliance and Ethics Group, OCEG, a non-profit organization that provides a performance framework for integrating governance, compliance, risk management and culture, has developed a Measurement and Metrics Guide (MMG) for assisting in measuring and reporting on the performance of compliance and ethics programs. This measurement platform advocates that program objectives be aligned with and contribute to the enterprise objectives in a tangible way. In order to achieve desired program outcomes, an organization should design processes and practices that effectively measure program dimensions on three key dimensions: effectiveness, efficiency and responsiveness.\n\n\n\nA solid measurement system and approach should be implemented that embodies these principles: \nKey metrics and indicators should be specific/simple, measurable, actionable, relevant and timely.\n\nPerformance measurement system should be reviewed and improved on an ongoing basis. It is only by gaining experience measuring performance that the organization can really refine and improve the system.\n\nCompliance risk is the current and prospective risk to earnings or capital arising from violations of, or nonconformance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, internal policies, and procedures, or ethical standards. Compliance risk also arises in situations where the laws or rules governing certain bank products or activities of the Bank’s clients may be ambiguous or untested. This risk exposes the institution to fines, civil money penalties, payment of damages, and the voiding of contracts. Compliance risk can lead to diminished reputation, reduced franchise value, limited business opportunities, reduced expansion potential, and an inability to enforce contracts.\n\nGovernance, Risk Management, and Compliance (GRC) management capability is the solution to addressing increasing stakeholder expectations. Solid financial results are no longer sufficient. Stakeholders are demanding more. They want to know about non-financial results and the intangibles that will ensure financial growth. They want increased reporting and transparency and insight into an organization’s strategy, risks, and operations along with an understanding of the manner in which business is conducted. As with the quality movement of the mid-1980s to early 1990s, these stakeholder demands are becoming baseline expectations.\n\nCompliance and ethics practices can no longer be viewed in isolation of the rest of the organization, as some function off to the side to keep an organization out of jail. It must become part of the overall business strategy and operations, pervasive throughout the entire organization. Ultimately, taking this integrated approach will lead to better overall performance and compliance will become less of a burden on the business.\n\n\n", "id": "7720374", "categories": ["Regulatory compliance", "Applied ethics", "United States business law"], "title": "Compliance and ethics program"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720380", "text": "USS Brewton\n\nUSS \"Brewton\" (FF-1086) was a in service with the United States Navy and the first ship of her name.\n\nThe \"Knox\" class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the 5-inch (127 mm) gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mack. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the 3-inch (76 mm) gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\n\"Brewton\" was launched 24 July 1971 and commissioned on 8 July 1972 with Commander John W. Kinnier in command, and assigned to Destroyer Squadron 33 at Pearl Harbor. She was decommissioned on 2 July 1992 at Naval Station Pearl Harbor after over 20 years of service, and struck from the Naval Register on 11 January 1995. On 29 September 1999, she was sold to Taiwan under the Security Assistance Program, where she was renamed ROCS \"Fong Yang\" (FFG-933). She is currently in active service.\n\nThe body of the Vietnam Unknown Soldier was transported aboard \"Brewton\" to Naval Air Station Alameda, California in May 1984. The remains were then sent to Travis Air Force Base, California, 24 May. The Vietnam Unknown arrived at Andrews Air Force Base, Maryland, the next day.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7720380", "categories": ["1970 ships", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Brewton"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720385", "text": "Thessaloniki Underwater Artery\n\nThe Underwater Artery () in Thessaloniki, Greece, is a planned multilane stretch of expressway along the seafront of the city and \nunderneath the seabed. Its purpose is to alleviate traffic problems within the city center.\n\nProposals for the construction of the Underwater Artery have received heated debate since at least the early 90s. Proponents suggest that the project will create a bypass for most of the East-West car traffic, which currently has to cross the congested city centre (given that Thessaloniki is especially linear as a city). Opponents cite the high construction cost, question the efficacy of such a solution and voice concerns about effects on the urban environment.\n\nThe contracts between the State and the contractor were signed on October 31, 2006. They \nwere ratified by the Parliament on February 8, 2007.\n\nThe project has a budget of 472 million euro, of which 66.5 million are to be provided by public and the rest by private funding. The operation of tolls will be granted to the contractor for a period of 30 years; the toll fee has been set at 0.90 euro.\n\nThe road is planned as a 6-lane expressway with a length of 6.5 kilometres, of which 4 kilometres will be in a tunnel. The roof of the tunnel will be at least one meter underneath the seabed. The western end will be at the port area and the eastern end will be close to the Makedonia Pallas hotel.\n\nUpon the completion of the works, Leoforos Nikis (the seafront avenue), which currently receives heavy eastward traffic, is to be pedestrianised.\n\n", "id": "7720385", "categories": ["Proposed roads", "Proposed undersea tunnels in Europe", "Proposed buildings and structures in Greece"], "title": "Thessaloniki Underwater Artery"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720387", "text": "Agua Caliente Racetrack\n\nThe Agua Caliente Racetrack (current name “Caliente Hipódromo“) is a greyhound racing and former horse racing track in Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico. It opened in December 1929 at a cost of $2.5 million.\n\nOne year before, the Agua Caliente Casino and Hotel opened in June 1928.\n\nNow the largest branch of the Caliente casino chain, the renovated building houses a casino with race betting, hundreds of slot machines, a restaurant and a Starbucks café. The complex includes the Estadio Caliente sports and concert stadium.\n\nLike the resort, the racetrack was designed by Wayne McAllister and built by wealthy Americans Baron Long, a Los Angeles nightclub owner, Wirt Bowman, owner of the Tijuana gambling establishment, The Foreign Club, and James Croffroth, a member of the local Tijuana horseracing establishment. Some sources note the fourth partner was Abelardo L. Rodríguez, Military Commander and Governor of Baja California, and future President of Mexico. The lavish resort and racetrack on the Mexican border was popular among Americans, particularly Hollywood celebrities, because drinking, gambling and horse racing were still illegal in most of the neighboring U.S. states. The first manager of the track was Tommy Gorman, who had previously been involved in ice hockey.\n\nAlthough President Lázaro Cárdenas outlawed gambling in 1935 and closed the resort and casino, the Agua Caliente Racetrack continued to operate for many years. It was the site of several industry firsts, including starting gates, safety helmets, and “pick six” wagering. Both Phar Lap and Seabiscuit ran and won the Agua Caliente Handicap, which for a time was the richest in North America.\n\nSuch riders as Aureliano Noguez, Humberto Enriquez, Francisco Mena, Antonio Castanon and David Flores graced the jockeys' quarters throughout the days of horse racing.\n\nThe race track is the originator of the Pick 6 (on the North American continent). Then known as the 5-10 and later on the 4-9'er. Some racetrackers called it the Big Six.\n\nThe original grandstand structure was destroyed by fire in 1971, but was rebuilt and continues to operate today, though just a shadow of its opulent beginnings. It is currently owned by millionaire politician Jorge Hank who renamed it \"Hipódromo de Agua Caliente\". It has not hosted horse racing since 1992, but presents greyhound races. The building was renovated in the 2010s and the Estadio Caliente stadium was built in the grounds.\n\n\n", "id": "7720387", "categories": ["Sports venues in Tijuana", "Agua Caliente, Tijuana", "Sports venues completed in 1929", "Horse racing venues in Mexico"], "title": "Agua Caliente Racetrack"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720389", "text": "USS Barbey\n\nUSS \"Barbey\" (DE-1088/FF-1088) was a of the US Navy. \"Barbey\" (DE-1088) was laid down on 5 February 1972 by Avondale Shipyards, Inc., Westwego, La.; launched on 4 December 1971; sponsored by Mrs. Daniel E. Barbey, widow of Vice Admiral Barbey; and placed in commission at Long Beach Naval Shipyard on 11 November 1972, Comdr. Theodore B. Shultz in command.\n\nAfter fitting out and completing sea trials at Long Beach Naval Shipyard, \"Barbey\" got underway on 4 February 1973 for shakedown training in the Hawaiian Islands. Before post-shakedown availability at Long Beach, which commenced on 12 May, the ship enjoyed a three-day liberty at Acapulco, Mexico, plane guarded for and conducted acoustic tests at Seattle. The availability included a drydock period from 5 June to 9 October during which workers at Long Beach Naval Shipyard modified her flight deck and hangar to accommodate a light airborne multi-purpose system (LAMPS) helicopter and installed an experimental controllable-pitch propeller (CPP). Testing and adjusting the new propeller system occupied the ship through January 1974.\n\nAfter further acoustic trials near Seattle in February and two days as plane guard for \"Hancock\" in early March, \"Barbey\" embarked the Commander, Destroyer Squadron 13, on 8 March for the joint U.S.-Canadian Navy exercise COMPTUEX 2B-74. During the next six days, the destroyer escort stood by to rescue pilots from . She returned to San Diego for upkeep and minor repairs which included the installation of a steel ball 35-feet in diameter on the helo hangar and the correction of an oil leak in the CPP hub. On 2 May, towed her to drydock at the Long Beach Naval Shipyard for ten days of further repairs to her CPP. On 16 May, she returned to San Diego for local operations that included plane guarding for .\n\nIn late June, \"Barbey\" joined for three days of operations near Seattle before returning to San Diego on the 28th. On 12 July, the destroyer escort departed the west coast for several weeks of refresher training in Hawaii, her crew honing their antisubmarine warfare skills en route. On 30 August, following her return to San Diego, \"Barbey\" lost all of the blades of the CPP during tests and had to be towed by to Long Beach Naval Shipyard.\n\nDuring the first six months of 1975, the warship reinstalled the CPP and subjected the new propeller to extensive trials at sea. During late May and early June, she interrupted this routine to undergo refresher training at Pearl Harbor prior to returning to San Diego. On 30 June 1975, \"Barbey\" and all other destroyer escorts were reclassified frigates, and she was redesignated FF-1088. Local operations, training, and upkeep kept the ship busy until 17 November when she commenced removal of the equipment associated with CNO project DS 523 (the 35-foot ball). During the first five days of December, \"Barbey\" conducted sonar sound trials and engineering drills before serving as an engineering and ASW school for most of the ensuing two weeks.\n\nOn 6 January 1976, the warship entered drydock at the Long Beach Naval Shipyard for repairs and modifications which primarily entailed the removal of the experimental CPP in favor of a standard, fixed-blade propeller. Following sea trials and deperming, \"Barbey\" conducted refresher training from 26 April to 7 May, then returned to San Diego for a month of preparation for upcoming inspections and tests. She completed a combat readiness test in mid-June before participating in readiness exercises in the eastern Pacific during the last week in June.\n\nTests, inspections, and training in preparation for her upcoming Pacific deployment consumed the entire month of July. On the 30th, the frigate embarked a detachment of ASW helicopters and got underway accompanied by , , , , , and . \"Barbey\" took part in the exercise Comptuex 1-77 in the Hawaiian Islands and then put in at Pearl Harbor from the 12th to the 17th. During the frigate's passage to the Philippines, her crew guided the ship through multi-ship ASW exercises and various tactical drills. Following her arrival at Subic Bay on 6 September, nearly three weeks of intensive upkeep readied the warship for the combined Exercise \"Kangaroo II\" with the Australians off the east coast of Australia from 12 to 25 October. She visited Geelong, Australia during the first week of November before returning to Subic Bay for upkeep and replenishment until 11 December. The remainder of the deployment primarily involved exercises in the South China Sea. In December, the warship participated in ASW exercises, Exercise \"Multiplex 1-77\" and missile exercises, returned to Subic Bay for upkeep, and then closed out the year with a liberty call at Hong Kong. In mid-January 1977, \"Barbey\" served as plane guard for \"Enterprise\" during readiness exercises. Three weeks of upkeep and replenishment at Guam and briefings at Kaohsiung, Taiwan, preceded the ship's participation in the Exercise \"Sharkhunt XX\" in late February. Following a brief liberty at Kaohsiung and a sojourn at Subic Bay, the frigate returned to San Diego, where she arrived on 21 March.\n\nDuring the first two weeks of June, the warship sailed to the Pacific northwest for tactical exercises and a goodwill visit to Portland, Oreg. With the exception of a brief respite at Aberdeen, Wash., in mid-October, she remained in or near San Diego for the remainder of the year engaging in various exercises and drills designed to maintain the ship in a high state of readiness. On 23 January 1978, \"Barbey\" commenced an eleven-month overhaul at Long Beach Naval Shipyard, which became her homeport while the overhaul lasted. During the overhaul, the warship received a Harpoon missile system among the improvements to her combat systems and engineering plant. In late November and early December, \"Barbey\" conducted sea trials to assess her engineering and sonar capabilities.\n\nUpkeep, training, and drills occupied the ship through the first half of 1979 culminating in the successful completion of her operational propulsion plant examination (OPPE) in late June. In July, the ship underwent refresher training until a problem with the emergency diesel generator forced her to return to San Diego for another overhaul on the 27th. Upon completion of the overhaul on 24 September until mid-October, \"Barbey\" participated in fleet exercises which she interrupted for a brief liberty at New Westminster, British Columbia. Following a month of upkeep at San Diego, she completed readiness exercises in November, including a combat systems readiness test, and the Exercise \"Comptuex 1-80\" in early December as a prelude to her upcoming Pacific deployment.\n\nOn 11 January 1980, the frigate set sail for Pearl Harbor where she concluded a week of training before continuing west to join the 7th Fleet at the end of the month. The warship enjoyed upkeep at Yokosuka and Subic Bay during February and visited Singapore and Thailand while serving as an escort for Amphibious Readiness Group (ARG) \"Alfa\" during operations in the Indian Ocean in March and April. After putting in at Diego Garcia Island on 5 May, \"Barbey\" began the return voyage to San Diego which included stops at Fremantle, Australia; Subic Bay, Guam, and Pearl Harbor. After arriving at San Diego on 12 July, she resumed the usual routine of upkeep, availability, inspections, and training during the remainder of 1980.\n\nIn June 1990 \"Barbey\" sailed from her homeport of San Diego on a regularly scheduled deployment to the Persian Gulf. During her transit to the Western Pacific she made port visits in Hawaii, the Philippines, Singapore and Penang Maylasia. She arrived at her destination on 1 August 1990. The \"Barbey\" and her crew transitioned from a peacetime deployment in a moderate threat environment, to a wartime deployment when the forces of Iraq, under the orders of Saddam Hussein, invaded the Emirate of Kuwait. The \"Barbey\", and her sailing mate for the transit, the USS \"England\", were immediately employed in Naval Operations to enforce the sanctions specified by UN Resolutions. During her deployment in the AG the USS \"Barbey\" and her embarked helicopter detachment, HSL-35 \"Magus 32\" provided support for the UN Resolutions and performed more surface ship interdiction intercepts than any other fleet unit in the AG during the period. Throughout the buildup of forces in support of Operation Desert Shield, \"Barbey\"s assets were utilized in interdiction and escort operations until she was relieved by the USS \"Marvin Shields\". Upon detaching from COMMIDEASTFOR she made her way back home with stops in the Philippines, Hong Kong and Hawaii. The \"Barbey\" arrived in San Diego on 21 December 1990 and commenced a repair availability.\n\nIn April 1991 the \"Barbey\" deployed in support of Law Enforcement and Drug Interdiction Operations to the coast of Baja California and Central Mexico. During this period \"Barbey\"s crew and her embarked Helicopter detachment SH2-F \"Sea Snake 11\" conducted three at sea rescues, of which, two were from merchant ships of foreign registry. Upon completion of her LEO assignment the USS \"Barbey\" participated in several fleet exercises and then entered another repair availability.\n\n\"Barbey\" was decommissioned on 20 March 1992 and struck from the Navy list on 11 January 1995. She was disposed of through the Security Assistance Program, foreign military sale to Taiwan on 29 September 1999, where she served as ROCS \"Hwai Yang\" (FFG-937).\n\n", "id": "7720389", "categories": ["1971 ships", "Knox-class frigates", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States Navy"], "title": "USS Barbey"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720398", "text": "USS Ainsworth\n\nUSS \"Ainsworth\" (DE/FF-1090) was a named for Vice Admiral Walden L. Ainsworth (1886–1960). \"Ainsworth\" (DE-1090) was laid down at Westwego, Louisiana, on 11 June 1971 by Avondale Shipyards, Inc.; launched on 15 April 1972; sponsored by Mrs. Katherine Gardner Ainsworth, the widow of Vice Admiral Ainsworth; and commissioned on 31 March 1973 at the Norfolk Naval Shipyard, Portsmouth, Virginia, Lt. Comdr. Terrence E. Siple in command.\n\nFollowing fitting out, the new ocean escort departed her home port, Norfolk, on 11 June and headed for Port Everglades, Florida, to prepare for sensor tests and calibration. She then proceeded to Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba for shakedown training. While the members of her crew were becoming familiar with their ship and their duties, \"Ainsworth\" visited Port-au-Prince, Haiti, and then proceeded on to La Guaira, Venezuela, where she joined warships of four other navies in a voyage to Maracaibo to commemorate the sesquicentennial of the Battle of Lake Maracaibo, a naval victory which helped Venezuela to win her independence.\n\nEn route home, the ship made recruiting stops at New Orleans and Miami before reaching Norfolk on 16 August and beginning preparation for her post-shakedown overhaul. She got underway on 16 October and, two days later, entered the Charleston Naval Shipyard in South Carolina. Less than a week after the work started, it was interrupted by rising tension in the Middle East; and \"Ainsworth\" was placed in a 36-hour ready standby status so that she would be able, if necessary, to race to the Mediterranean. However, the stressful situation soon eased sufficiently for her to resume the repairs which were completed late in February 1974.\n\nThe escort operated along the east coast and in the West Indies until 18 July when she began a voyage in which she would circumnavigate South America, sailing south via the West Indies to Brazil and then proceeding on down the coast. Rio de Janeiro and Montevideo were among her ports of call before the ship rounded Cape Horn. While returning north in the Pacific, she visited Valparaiso and Callao before reentering the Atlantic through the Panama Canal. After stops at La Guaira and Cumona, Venezuela, she proceeded home via Roosevelt Roads, Puerto Rico, and reached Norfolk on 16 December 1974.\n\nFollowing leave and upkeep, the ship underwent tender availability alongside and then prepared for operations in the Caribbean which lasted until 24 March 1975 when \"Ainsworth\" again headed home. She arrived in Hampton Roads on 27 March and, but for a midshipmen training cruise during the latter half of June and a run back to the West Indies from 22 to 29 August, she worked in the Norfolk–Virginia Capes area until early autumn. During that summer the ship was reclassified a frigate and redesignated FF-1090 on 30 June 1975.\n\nOn 3 October, the ocean escort headed across the Atlantic for her first visit to the Mediterranean, beginning a routine of alternating deployments to the 6th Fleet with operations on the east coast of the United States and in the Caribbean. She reported to the 6th Fleet at Rota, Spain, on 13 October and relieved the frigate . During the remainder of the month, she visited Tangier, Morocco; conducted operations in the western Mediterranean; and made a port call at Málaga, Spain.\n\nShe left the Mediterranean on the last day of October and devoted the next three weeks to Operation \"Ocean Safari\" in the northern Atlantic and then spent from 22 to 28 November at Portsmouth, England, in company with the frigate . She headed back toward Gibraltar on the latter day and rejoined the 6th Fleet at Rota on 3 December. Her operations during the next five months took her almost the full length of the Mediterranean as she visited ports in Italy, Greece, Turkey, France, and Spain before she headed home on 26 April 1976.\n\nAfter reaching Norfolk on 5 May, the frigate operated in the Hampton Roads–Virginia Capes area for the remainder of the year with the exception of a trip up the Chesapeake Bay to Annapolis in late September and early October for a visit to the Naval Academy. On 17 January 1977, \"Ainsworth\" sailed for the Caribbean. She stopped at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba; Fort-de-France, Martinique; and San Juan, Puerto Rico, before taking part in Exercise \"CARIBEX 1–77\" from 11 to 21 February.\n\nUpon her return to Norfolk on George Washington's Birthday, the ship readied herself for another deployment to European waters and got underway across the Atlantic on the last day of March. After reaching Rota on 12 April, she sailed for Skaramangas, Greece on 16 April; reached there on 21 April; and remained at that port for a month before proceeding via Souda Bay, Crete, to the Ionian Sea. There she took part in a series of 6th Fleet operations which—but for runs to nearby ports—kept her busy until mid-July.\n\nOn 15 July, she sailed for the Levant and visited Haifa, Israel, from 20–24 July. Then, after sailing westward, she reached Naples on 29 July and underwent a tender availability there until 11 August. Three days at Augusta Bay, Sicily, preceded her participation in 6th Fleet Exercise \"National Week XXIII\" from 16 to 22 August. During her ensuing operations in the western Mediterranean, she called at ports in France, Spain (Alicante), and Portugal (Lisbon) before sailing for home on 10 October.\n\nThe ship reached Hampton Roads on 21 October and remained there until getting underway on 28 November for MARCOTT 3/77, a joint exercise with Canadian warships which kept her busy until she returned to Norfolk in mid-December. The frigate devoted the full month of February 1978 to the Atlantic Fleet's annual readiness exercise and then spent the first 12 days of March in upkeep at Norfolk before representing her sister frigates in Exercise \"Shamrock,\" a combined weapons test and training exercise. carrier , guided missile cruiser , and destroyer also took part in this demonstration which was observed by President Jimmy Carter. On St. Patrick's Day, she arrived at Jacksonville, Florida, and spent the rest of March in that vicinity supporting advanced underway training of surface warfare officers. She returned to Norfolk on 1 April to serve off the Virginia Capes as deck landing qualifications ship for LAMPS Squadrons 30, 32, and 34. During the five-day procedure 725 landings were made while 94 pilots were qualified. Then, following further operations in the Norfolk-Virginia Capes area, \"Ainsworth\" entered the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard for her first regular overhaul which kept her busy until 1 March 1979.\n\nUnderway for her home port the following day, she arrived at Norfolk on 3 March and conducted local operations until getting underway on 10 May for refresher training in the Caribbean. This West Indies cruise, which lasted through mid-summer, took her to the Bahamas, Guantanamo Bay, Haiti, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. Then, with fighting skills again honed to a keen edge, she returned to Norfolk on 23 August and operated locally until putting to sea on 1 October for 12 days of combined underway training exercises along the east coast and in waters off Puerto Rico. Upon returning home on 13 October, the ship began preparations for another deployment, got underway on 10 November, and proceeded via the Azores to Rota. After entering the Mediterranean, she continued on—via the Suez Canal and the Red Sea—to the Persian Gulf and transited the Strait of Hormuz on 9 December. While in the Middle East she visited Jidda, Saudi Arabia; Djibouti, Afars and Issas; and Sitra, Bahrein. \"Ainsworth\" departed the latter port on 22 December 1979 and began 84 consecutive days of service underway at sea ready to act in any emergency which might arise in the area which might result from the prolonged crises precipitated by Iran's capture and occupation of the American Embassy in Tehran and the imprisonment of the American citizens who worked there.\n\nOn 11 March 1980, the ship finally put into Muscat, Oman, for fuel as she began her voyage homeward. Three days later, \"Ainsworth\" topped off her oil bunkers at Djibouti and continued on through the Red Sea, the Suez Canal, and the Mediterranean, to Gibraltar. Following brief stops in the Azores and at Bermuda, she ended the deployment upon her arrival at Norfolk on 17 April.\n\nAfter a month of leave and upkeep, the ship took part in COMPUTEX 4–80 and carried out naval gunfire support qualifications. At the end of a four-day visit to Port-au-Prince, Haiti, she got underway for home on 19 June and proceeded via Port Everglades to Norfolk which she reached on the 23d. Two days later, she entered the Norfolk Naval Shipyard for a restricted availability which lasted until 11 August. The vessel then began preparations for overseas movement and got underway on the 29th for Exercise \"United Effort\" and \"Teamwork 80\" which kept her at sea in the North Atlantic and the North Sea until she arrived at Copenhagen, Denmark, on 24 September. She also put into Oslo, Norway, Leith and Rosyth, Scotland, and Portsmouth, England, en route home which she reached on 2 November.\n\nAfter remaining in the Norfolk area into the new year, the frigate sailed on 6 January 1981 for Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island, where she supported submarine training until 9 January. She then prepared for READEX 1–81 and gunfire qualifications which kept her busy until 17 February when work began on making the ship ready for another deployment to the Middle East. She got underway on 18 March and reached Rota on 29 March. After transiting the Suez Canal and the Red Sea from 14 to 17 April, she entered the Indian Ocean and headed back toward the Persian Gulf. After refueling at Sitra, Bahrain, she operated near the Strait of Hormuz until 11 May and then took part in Exercise PASSEX in the Gulf of Oman with the British vessels and . Next came battle group operations with the aircraft carrier and a visit to Kenya. En route to Mombasa, the ship crossed the equator on 23 May. Upon finishing another PASSEX on 3 June, an exercise conducted with two fast patrol boats of the Kenya Navy, she sailed for Sitra, Bahrain, in company with the aircraft carrier , en route to the Persian Gulf, and conducted operations with that carrier's battle group.\n\nFollowing almost a month's labors in the vicinity of the Persian Gulf, she sailed for Djibouti on 8 July—beginning the first leg of her voyage home—and took part in further exercises with \"Bacchante\" and \"Minerva\" in the Gulf of Oman and in operations with America in the Arabian Sea. She reentered the Mediterranean on the 19th and reached Haifa, Israel, two days later. Heading eastward on the 24th, she stopped at Palermo, Sicily, from 27 July to 8 August and then operated with carriers and until 19 August. On the last two days of those operations, she took part in a missile exercise in the Gulf of Sidra, in international waters off the coast of Libya. After arriving at Rota on 22 August, \"Ainsworth\" took part in Exercises \"Ocean Venture\" and \"Magic Sword\" before sailing for home on 4 September with the battle group built around \"Forrestal\" and reached Norfolk on 15 September.\n\nFollowing a month in leave and upkeep status at Norfolk, the ship moved to the York River on 15 October to take part in ceremonies celebrating the bicentennial of the American victory at Yorktown. On 20 October, she headed for the Bahamas to serve as a schoolship in antisubmarine warfare training for future commanding officers on the AUTEC Range at Andros Island. She returned to Norfolk on 2 November and, three days later, entered the Home Brothers' Shipyard for a selected restricted availability. This work was completed on 4 January 1982; and, but for short operations in the Caribbean during the latter half of February and the first half of October, the frigate spent most of the year in the vicinity of Norfolk.\n\nShe again weighed anchor on 27 December 1982 shortly after departure from Norfolk the ship is believed to have struck a whale and blew out her sonar dome.She proceeded to Brooklyn Naval Shipyard where an emergency replacement of the dome took place taking approximately thirty days and proceeded eastward across the Atlantic, via Bermuda and the Azores, to Rota where she arrived on 7 January 1983. The next day, she pushed on toward the Levant to serve as a naval gunfire support ship backing the multi-national, peace-keeping force at Beirut, Lebanon. She served off that troubled land from 13 to 29 January and then proceeded via the Suez Canal, the Red Sea, and the Gulf of Aden for the Arabian Sea. Following a tender availability at Masirah, Oman, she got underway with carrier America's battle group for \"Weapons-Week\" operations in the vicinity of Diego Garcia, the American naval base in the Indian Ocean. Following these exercises, she arrived at Male, Maldive Islands, on 7 March for a port visit. Underway again on 13 March, she worked her way back with \"America\"s battle group to Masirah which she reached on 26 March. Two days later, she sailed for Kenya and put into Mombasa on 5 April. On ll April, the ship headed back toward the northern Arabian Sea in company with \"America\" and, en route, participated in Exercise \"PASSEX\" which included Australian warships. She also took part in submarine exercises with the submarine . The ship transited the Suez Canal on 30 April and conducted special operations in the central Mediterranean with \"Nimitz\"s battle group before she was detached from the 6th Fleet on 10 May to return home. She pulled into Norfolk on the 20th and began a post deployment leave and upkeep period.\n\nHer ensuing operations along the east coast took her to New England waters before she departed Hampton Roads on 10 August for an overhaul at the Charleston Naval Shipyard. The yard work, which included upgrading of the ship's sonar equipment and installation of a close-in weapon system lasted into the spring of 1984. \"Ainsworth\" sailed for Norfolk on 28 March and reentered her home port the next day. But for a run to the Bahamas during the second week of July for acoustic trials on the AUTEC range, the ship operated on the east coast for the remainder of the year and well into 1985. Late in March 1985, she traveled south to Florida and thence to the West Indies where she conducted shore bombardment practice at Vieques Island.\n\nReturning north to Norfolk in mid-April, \"Ainsworth\" operated in the immediate vicinity until late summer. On 27 August, the frigate stood out of her home port bound for a tour of duty with the 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean Sea. For the next seven months, the warship escorted the carriers of the 6th Fleet as they traveled the length and breadth of the Mediterranean. She participated in a number of exercises testing the fleet's readiness and its ability to operate with elements of allied navies. When not so engaged, the frigate called at a variety of ports on goodwill missions. She completed turnover formalities at Rota, Spain, early in April 1986 and then set out across the Atlantic on 6 April. \"Ainsworth\" stood into Norfolk again on 16 April.\n\nFollowing the usual month of post-deployment leave and upkeep, the warship entered the yard at the Norfolk Shipbuilding & Drydock Co. to begin a 12-week repair period. Emerging from the yard again on 12 August, she operated in the immediate vicinity of Norfolk—either in the lower Chesapeake Bay or just off the Virginia Capes—until early in October. On 4 October, \"Ainsworth\" headed south to the coast of Florida where she occupied the rest of the month carrying out refresher training. The frigate returned to Norfolk on 31 October and spent the remainder of 1986 in port.\n\nOn 30 September 1990, \"Ainsworth\" was assigned to the Atlantic Reserve Fleet and was reclassified as a training frigate (FFT-1090); one of only eight ships of her class subject to this redesignation. \nOn 27 May 1994, she was decommissioned and leased to Turkey where she was renamed as \"TCG Ege\" (F-256). \n\"Ainsworth\" was stricken from the U.S. Naval Vessel Register on 11 January 1995.\n\nThe frigate served in the Turkish Navy and was involved in many NATO operations in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea during 1990s. She joined the STANAVFORMED task force in the Adriatic Sea as a warship for search and patrol missions in 13 August 1995 for three months. She also participated in Dynamic Mix International Naval Exercise in 1998. The ship was decommissioned on 21 March 2005; she is currently preserved as a museum ship at İnciraltı Sea Museum, in İzmir, Turkey.\n\n", "id": "7720398", "categories": ["Ships transferred from the United States Navy to the Turkish Navy", "1972 ships", "Museum ships in Turkey", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Ainsworth"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720399", "text": "Memory work\n\nMemory work is a process of engaging with the past which has both an ethical and historical dimension.\n\nThe premise for memory work or \"travail de memoire\" is that history is not memory. We try to represent the past in the present through memory, history and the archives. As Paul Ricoeur argued, memory alone is fallible. Historical accounts are always partial and potentially misrepresent since historians do not work with bare, uninterpreted facts. Historians construct and use archives that contain traces of the past. However, historians and librarians determine which traces are preserved and stored. This is an interpretive activity. Historians pose questions to which the archives responds leading them to “facts that can be asserted in singular, discrete propositions that usually include dates, places, proper names, and verbs of action or condition”. Individuals remember events and experiences some of which they share with a collective. Through mutual reconstruction and recounting collective memory is reconstructed. Individuals are born into familial discourse which already provides a backdrop of communal memories against which individual memories are shaped. A group's communal memory becomes its common knowledge which creates a social bond, a sense of belonging and identity. Professional historians attempt to corroborate, correct, or refute collective memory. Memory work then entails adding an ethical component which acknowledges the responsibility towards revisiting distorted histories thereby decreasing the risk of social exclusion and increasing the possibility of social cohesion of at-risk groups.\n\nThe concept of memory-work as distinguished from history-as-memory finds a textbook case in the Vichy Syndrome as described by Rousso. His title uses medical lexicon to refer to history-memory as dependent on working consciously with unconscious memories to revise accounts of history. This calls for an expanded archive that includes the \"oral and popular tradition\" as well as the written traditions normally associated with the archives.\n\nPierre Nora, introduced 'lieu de mémoire' about 25 years ago, he traced the surge in memory work at the level of the nation-state to the revisiting of distorted histories of the anti-Semitic Vichy France (1940-1944) following the death of Charles de Gaulle in 1970. Structural changes resulted from the end of the peasantry and the dramatic economic slump as oil prices worldwide rose in 1974. Added to this was the intellectual collapse of Marxism precipitated in part by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn’s \"Gulag Archipelago\" which forced the French to rethink attitudes towards the past. 'Lieu de mémoire' closed down perspectives to better understand cultural memory, instead of opening up perspectives. He associated memory with place, and location.\n\nDuring memory work, the process of producing an image or what we refer to as the production of the imaginary, is central. Therefore, the key in the analysis of remembered history are contradictions.\n\nAfter meeting at Yale University in 1966, Jacques Derrida was a colleague and friend of Paul de Man's until de Man's death in 1983. In 1984 Derrida gave three lectures, including one at Yale University on the art of memory. In \"Memories:for Paul de Man\" described the relationship between memory work and deconstruction in this often-cited passage.\n\nBarbara Gabriel provided a model for reading the complexities of memory and forgetting by situating \"unheimlich\" within the \"heimlich\", in a Freudian 'one within the other structure'. As point of departure Gabriel examined Edgar Reitz's eleven-part West German television series entitled \"Heimat\". Reitz' work was in response to a larger movement in Germany national memory work provoked in part by an American television series entitled the \"Holocaust\" followed viewed by millions. As European art in general and German art in particular resurged in the 1960s, artists like Günter Grass and Edgar Reitz captured international attention as they grappled with issues of identity in a divided, post-Holocaust Germany. Gabriel developed the concept of an impulse towards national memory work in Germany that stemmed from a haunted subject yearning for a lost, far away, nostalgic place, a utopic homeland. \"How do we confront that which we have excluded in order to be, whether it is the return of the repressed or the return of the strangers?\" In other words, that which we fear as 'other' is within ourselves through our shared humanity. Repressed memories haunt all of us.\n\nAfter attending a memory methodology workshop in Cape Town, South Africa in 2005 on forced removal traumas, Australian performance artist Tanya Heyward, created a performance piece called \"Site\" in Melbourne Watch House in 2006. She referred to a burial ground at Prestwich Street, Cape Town, South Africa with three thousand skeletons dating back to Dutch colonization, the largest of its kind in the South Africa.\n\nThe concept of memory work is part of a sociological imagination from a post-national point of view. Expanding on Norbert Loeffler: The idea of one national history is only acceptable as a question, not as an answer.\n\nMemory work is related to identity work often associated with displaced persons. Some of the most provocative research on memory work has been authored by the Pied-noir, or French colonials in Algeria, who returned to France following the Algerian War. Examples of such thinkers include Jacques Derrida and Hélène Cixous. Another major writer in this field, Julia Kristeva, also moved away from the country of her birth, having emigrated to France from Bulgaria when she was 24.\n\n", "id": "7720399", "categories": ["Cultural studies", "Memory"], "title": "Memory work"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720404", "text": "USS Thomas C. Hart\n\nUSS \"Thomas C. Hart\" (FF-1092) was a , named for Admiral and Senator Thomas C. Hart. \"Thomas C. Hart\" (DE-1092) was laid down on 8 October 1971 at Westwego, La., by Avondale Shipyards, Inc.; launched on 12 August 1972; sponsored by Mrs. Reginald Bragonier, eldest granddaughter of Admiral Thomas C. Hart; and commissioned on 28 July 1973, Lt. Comdr. Ronald J. Forst in command.\n\nThe last combatant ship commissioned at the Boston Naval Shipyard, \"Thomas C. Hart\" conducted sea trials off the east coast before being homeported in Norfolk, Va. Following shakedown at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, she returned to the Norfolk Naval Shipyard on 1 February 1974, where she underwent a major structural conversion, altering her after superstructure to accommodate the new Light Airborne Multi-purpose System (LAMPS) facilities. She then steamed out for post-repair trials off the Virginia Capes.\n\nDeploying to the Caribbean, \"Thomas C. Hart\" conducted weapons systems tests and antisubmarine exercises and, upon completion of these duties, called at Port-au-Prince, Haiti, before returning to Guantanamo Bay for further training. After naval gunfire support qualification at Roosevelt Roads, she cruised to Bermuda for a three-day visit. She left Port Royal Bay on 3 September, having to do a \"quick step\" to avoid the tropical storm which later became Hurricane Delores, and arrived at Norfolk on 5 September.\n\nIn October, following type training in the Narragansett Bay area, the ship qualified for a certificate for unrestricted operations.\n\nWith Capt. W. R. Smedburg IV, Commander, Destroyer Squadron 10, and his staff embarked, \"Thomas C. Hart\" got underway on 18 November for Composite Task Unit Exercise 4-75 and nine days of intensive exercises. The following month, the ship passed her Nuclear Weapons Acceptance Inspection on 11 December and thus became a nuclear-qualified ship.\n\nThe early months of 1975 were spent in preparation for \"Thomas C. Hart\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s first Mediterranean deployment. This deployment, which lasted from 16 June to 22 December, consisted primarily of operations with and other escorts while making a number of port visits in company with . On 1 July 1975, the ship was reclassified as FF-1092. \"Thomas C. Hart\" spent the first six months of 1976 engaging in two major fleet exercises in preparation for her four and one-half month, unsupported participation in Unitas XVII later in the year. The first exercise, \"Safepass,\" lasted from 6 to 26 March and involved complex NATO fleet operations out of Halifax, Nova Scotia. The second exercise, \"Solid Shield,\" occurred during the period 13 to 18 May and involved operations off the coast of the Carolinas in support of a full amphibious landing on Onslow Beach. Following an intensive month-long preparation period in June, \"Thomas C. Hart\" commenced Unitas XVII on 9 July. During the next 18 weeks, the ship circumnavigated the South American continent and operated with host ships from Brazil, Uruguay, Argentina, Chile, Peru, Colombia, and Venezuela. The frigate returned to her home port of Norfolk on 21 November and spent the remainder of the year in post-deployment stand down and holiday leave period.\n\nEarly 1977 found \"Thomas C. Hart\" experiencing a period of maintenance, alteration, and testing. Of most significance was the installation of the Harpoon system, a highly sophisticated surface warfare missile which greatly extended \"Thomas C. Hart\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s reach against surface contacts. Most of September was spent in Norfolk preparing for the ship's second Mediterranean deployment. She departed CONUS on 27 September and engaged in seven months of operations with the 6th Fleet before returning to Norfolk again on 26 April 1978. Ports of call included Rota, Spain; Alexandria, Egypt; Istanbul, Turkey; Piraeus, Greece; Venice, Gaeta, and Naples, Italy; and—finally—Majorca; Valencia, and Rota, Spain.\n\nFollowing post-deployment stand down, \"Thomas C. Hart\" engaged in CORTRAMID 78, an underway training period for midshipmen, which lasted from mid-June through early July. In late September 1978, \"Thomas C. Hart\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s home port was shifted to Philadelphia in anticipation of the commencement of her first regular overhaul since commissioning. \"Thomas C. Hart\" entered the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard for this purpose on 26 October, and she remained there into 1979.\n\nOn 30 August 1993 the ship was transferred to Turkey as TCG \"Zafer (F253)\". Decommissioned, the ship was sunk as a target ship as part of Turkish Navy exercise Beyaz Fırtına 2016.\n\n", "id": "7720404", "categories": ["Ships transferred from the United States Navy to the Turkish Navy", "1972 ships", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Thomas C. Hart"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720408", "text": "California mule deer\n\nThe California mule deer (\"Odocoileus hemionus californicus\") is a subspecies of mule deer whose range covers much of the state of California.\n\nOne of the principal means of distinguishing the closely related black-tailed deer and white-tailed deer is the growth habit of the buck's antlers. In the case of the California mule deer, the antlers fork in an upward growth, whereas the other species' antlers grow in a forward direction.\n\nThis subspecies, \"O. h. californicus\", is widespread throughout northern and central California in the California coastal prairie, as well as inner coastal ranges and interior mountains, especially the Sierra Nevada. This deer is much less frequently found on the floor of the interior valleys, and then mostly frequently in riparian zones.\n\nGenerally, the California mule deer has a preference for hill terrain, especially an oak woodland habitat. It is a browser and typically takes over 90% of its diet from shrubs and leaves and the balance from grasses.\n\nCalifornia mule deer usually browse close to lakes or streams providing their water. From that water source, they may roam 1-2 mi, and typically make their beds in grassy areas beneath trees within such a one-mile radius from both water and forage.\n\nRepeatedly used beds often are scratched to a nearly level surface, about 2 m in diameter. Less regularly used bedding areas are seen as flattened grass. On hot summer days, California mule deer often seek shade and rest in the midday.\n\nIn summer, California mule deer mainly browse on leaves of small trees, shrubs, and herbaceous plants, but also consume many types of berries (including blackberry, huckleberry, salal, and thimbleberry). In winter, they may expand their forage to conifers (particularly twigs of Douglas fir), aspen, willow, dogwood, juniper, and sage. Year-round, they feed on acorns; grasses are a secondary food source. Where humans have encroached on historic deer habitat by suburban development or orchards, California mule deer diversify their diet with garden plant material, tree fruit, and occasionally, pet food.\n\nFawns and does tend to forage together in familial groupings, while bucks tend to travel singly or with other bucks. California mule deer browse most actively near dawn and dusk, but also forage at night in open agricultural areas or when experiencing hunting pressure.\nRutting season occurs in autumn when the does come into estrus for a period lasting only several days. Males exhibit aggressive behavior in competing for mates. Does begin estrus again if they do not become pregnant. The gestation period is about 200 days, with fawns arriving in the spring; the young remain with mothers throughout the summer and are weaned in the autumn. The buck's antlers fall off in the winter, and commence growing once more in spring in anticipation of next autumn's rut.\n\nSince prehistoric times, the Native American indigenous peoples of California are known to have hunted California mule deer. Thus, since about 12,000 BCE, Gage suggests that human populations have served as a control to the numbers of California mule deer.\n\nIn the modern era, since European colonists and Euro-Americans settled in California, hunting pressure intensified as the human population expanded and hunting became an activity not just associated with food supply. In addition, human population growth (through urban development) in California has consumed large amounts of natural habitat of the California mule deer starting in the late 19th century and continuing through the present.\n\n", "id": "7720408", "categories": ["Deer", "Fauna of the Sierra Nevada (U.S.)", "Mammals of the United States", "Fauna of the California chaparral and woodlands", "Natural history of the Santa Monica Mountains", "Endemic fauna of California", "Natural history of the California Coast Ranges"], "title": "California mule deer"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720409", "text": "Kerry Bishop\n\nKerry Bishop is a fictional character from the Australian soap opera \"Neighbours\", played by Linda Hartley-Clark. She made her first screen appearance during the episode broadcast on 1 February 1989. Kerry is Mavis and Harold Bishop's (Ian Smith) only daughter and David Bishop's (Kevin Harrington) sister. Kerry left home when she was young to travel the world. She met Eric (John Ley) and fell pregnant with their daughter, Sky (Stephanie McIntosh). Following her arrival in Erinsborough, Kerry began a relationship with Joe Mangel (Mark Little) and they eventually married. Kerry adopted Joe's son and fell pregnant again. However, while out protesting a duck hunt, Kerry was shot and she and her unborn child died. Kerry departed on 10 September 1990, but Hartley-Clark returned in 2004 and 2006 to record voice-overs. She also made an appearance in 2005 as Kerry's look-alike Gabrielle Walker.\n\nProducers introduced the character of Kerry in 1989 to rescue Des Clarke (Paul Keane) from depression and eventually become his second wife. However, when Kerry began to interact with Joe Mangel (Mark Little), they became popular with viewers who wanted them to get together and the producers agreed with their opinion.\n\nKerry is the only daughter of Mavis and Harold Bishop (Ian Smith). After arriving in Erinsborough, Kerry moved into Number 24 with Harold. However, their very different personalities and views soon became a problem. Kerry had a daughter, Sky (Miranda Fryer; Stephanie McIntosh), out of wedlock and did not care for religion, which shocked Harold, who was a Christian.\n\nWhen her contract came up for renewal in mid-1990, Hartley-Clark realised that she was fed up of working long hours, so she decided to quit the role after twenty months. Of her reason to leave, she stated \"Once you start to get out of bed and sit in the toilet at five in the morning wailing, 'I don't want to go!' I think it's time to get out.\" Hartley-Clark filmed her final scenes as Kerry in July 1990. She stated that Kerry had been a \"wonderful\" character to portray and she felt she had had a rewarding experience during her time on \"Neighbours\".\n\nThe decision was taken to kill Kerry off and Hartley-Clark thought that the end was \"certainly final.\" The actress believed it was the \"only logical way\" to write her character out, as Joe and Kerry would not have just ended their marriage. She quipped, \"If you're going to go, you might as well go with a bang! Producers had months to plan Kerry's death and Josephine Monroe, author of \"Neighbours: The First 10 Years\", noted that they chose to make it as poignant as possible. On-screen, a newly wed Kerry became pregnant, she was finally accepted into the Mangel family by her stepson Toby (Finn-Greentree Keane; Ben Guerens), and she was persuaded to return to her campaigning roots. On 10 September 1990, a heavily pregnant Kerry went to protest against duck hunting with her friend Amber Martin (Alison Whyte). Kerry was hit by a stray bullet and both she and her unborn child died. Kerry became the second regular character to die in \"Neighbours\", following Daphne Clarke's (Elaine Smith) death in 1988.\n\nHartley-Clark reprised her role as Kerry to voice letters to her on-screen daughter, Sky in 2004 and 2006. Hartley-Clark rejoined the cast in 2005 in the guest role of Kerry's look-alike Gabrielle Walker.\n\nKerry is the youngest child of Harold and Mavis Bishop. She was a free spirit, in great contrast to her brother David (Kevin Harrington) who had inherited most of Harold's uptight qualities. When Kerry decided to rebel against Harold's way of life, it caused a great deal of friction and Kerry left home to travel the world. Kerry fell pregnant by fellow hippy Eric (John Ley) and they had a daughter, Sky. Kerry wanted to settle down, but Eric didn't and so he left them.\n\nKerry is first seen in the coffee shop when Edith Chubb (Irene Inescort) complains to Harold about her bringing her own food in. Harold is about to reprimand her but soon recognises Kerry. Harold invites Kerry back to stay with him at Number 24 with him, his wife, Madge (Anne Charleston) and her son Henry Ramsay (Craig McLachlan). Kerry accepts. When Kerry meets Joe Mangel who lives across the road, there is an instant attraction as both are free spirits and have had to contend with stuffy parents. When it transpires Kerry has spent the night with Joe, Harold is appalled as he doesn't think Joe is suitable for Kerry and she decides to leave. Joe, at the last minute talks Kerry out of leaving and she repairs her relationship with Harold\n\nAfter a while, Kerry and Joe become engaged and later marry in an unorthodox ceremony in a butterfly house and adopt each other's children, Sky and Toby, respectively. The following year, Tragedy strikes when a heavily pregnant Kerry goes to protest against duck hunting in the marshes with her friend Amber Martin. Kerry is hit by a stray bullet and is rushed to hospital. Joe and Harold are devastated when the doctor tells them Kerry and the baby have died due to the severe blood loss from the shooting. Sixteen years after Kerry's death, Sky gives birth to a baby girl and names her Kerry in honour of her mother.\n\nFor her portrayal of Karry, Hartley-Clark won the 1989 Penguin Award for Best Actress in a Drama Serial. A writer for the BBC's \"Neighbours\" website stated that Kerry's most notable moment was \"Marrying Joe Mangel in the butterfly enclosure at the zoo.\" Robin Oliver from \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" branded Kerry \"the greenie martyr\". A columnist for the \"Sunderland Echo\" named Kerry's death as one of \"Neighbours\"' memorable moments. The columnist said it was \"One of the most unexpected deaths the show has ever had\". Tim Teeman and James Jackson from \"The Times\" also named Kerry's death as one of \"Neighbours<nowiki>'</nowiki>\" most memorable moments. They said \"As the ducks quack all around and Joe gathers her in his befleeced arms, Neighbours eco-hippy Kerry Bishop dies saving ze animals\". A \"Herald Sun\" reporter called Kerry's death \"one of the show's saddest moments\".\n\n", "id": "7720409", "categories": ["Female characters in television", "Neighbours characters", "Fictional characters introduced in 1989"], "title": "Kerry Bishop"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720412", "text": "USS Valdez\n\nUSS \"Valdez\" (FF-1096) is the forty-fifth and was built by Avondale Shipyard, Westwego, Louisiana, and originally designated as an ocean escort (DE-1096). Commissioned in the United States Navy from 1974 to 1991, she was the first U.S. Navy ship to be named for a Spanish-descended American war hero. In 1998, \"Valdez\" was leased to Taiwan and renamed \"Yi Yang\" (FF-939).\n\n\"Valdez\" was named in honor of Hospitalman Phil Isadore Valdez. Born on 13 April 1946 in Dixon, New Mexico. He graduated from Espanola High School, Espanola, New Mexico. On 1 November 1965 he reported to Recruit Training and then attended Naval Hospital Corps Schools San Diego, California. He was assigned to Naval Hospital Key West, Florida; and then on 19 December 1966 transferred to Bravo Co., 1st Battalion, 1st Marines, 1st Marine Division (Reinforced), Fleet Marine Force in the Republic of Vietnam, near Danang.\n\nHospitalman Valdez was killed in action on 29 January 1967 while serving as corpsman with the Third Platoon when that unit was flown in by helicopter to provide support for the embattled Hotel Co., 2nd Battalion, 1st Marines. Upon landing Valdez’ unit came under heavy sniper fire, and several Marines were wounded. Valdez sprang into action running across open land to an injured Marine while being raked by enemy fire. After helping the first Marine to cover and treating his wounds, Valdez returned to the open and rushed to the aid of a second Marine. Positioning himself as to protect the wounded Marine Valdez was mortally wounded by enemy sniper fire. As a result of his exceptional courage he was posthumously advanced in rank to Petty Officer Third Class and awarded the Navy Cross.\n\nUSS \"Valdez\" was laid down on 30 June 1972 at Oswego, Louisiana, by the Avondale Shipyard; launched on 24 March 1973; sponsored by Mrs. Manuelita Valdez, the mother of Hospitalman Third Class Valdez; and commissioned on 27 July 1974 at Charleston, South Carolina, Comdr. Joe D. Peden in command. The \"Valdez\" was the first U.S. Navy ship to be named for a Spanish-descended American war hero.\n\n\"Valdez\" spent the following three months in Charleston fitting out and completing final trials. She departed Charleston on 27 October, bound for Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, whence she operated for the next seven weeks. Upon completion of her shakedown cruise, she returned to Charleston for a month of leave and upkeep followed by inspections and preparations for post-shakedown availability. That availability began on 25 February 1975 and ended on 11 April. At that juncture, she began normal operations out of Charleston and, later, participated in Exercise \"Solid Shield,\" an amphibious landing and convoy protection exercise conducted during the last week in May and the first week in June near Morehead City, North Carolina. On 6 June, the ocean escort returned to Charleston and resumed the normal routine until 18 August. During that period, she was reclassified a frigate and redesignated FF-1096 on 30 June 1975. On 18 August, the frigate steamed out of Charleston for her first overseas deployment. She changed operational control to the 6th Fleet upon arrival at Rota, Spain, on 29 August. From there, the frigate moved into and across the Mediterranean Sea to Egypt. She transited the Suez Canal on 5 September and the next day reported for duty with the Middle East Force at Djibouti in the French Territory of the Afars and Issas. During her tour of duty with the Middle East Force, \"Valdez\" participated in bilateral exercises with units of the naval forces of France, Iran, Abu Dhabi, and Pakistan as well as of the Air Force of Kuwait. She also embarked officers of the Saudi Arabian Navy for training and participated in the multinational CENTO exercise codenamed MidLink-75. Ports of call included Bandar Abbas, Iran; Bahrain; Kuwait; Shar-jah and Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates; Karachi, Pakistan; Assab, Ethiopia; Victoria, Seychelles; and Jidda, Saudi Arabia.\n\nOn 31 January 1976, \"Valdez\" retransited the Suez Canal on her way home. She recrossed the Mediterranean Sea and arrived back in Rota on 5 February where she remained until 8 February. Between 11 and 14 February, she visited Brest, France, where she participated in a gun salute symbolic of the first salute ever fired to the flag of the independent United States. From there, she set course—via the Azores and Bermuda— to return to Charleston. \"Valdez\" reentered her home port on 25 February.\n\nAfter leave and upkeep, she resumed normal 2nd Fleet operations out of Charleston. That duty lasted until September when she began preparations for another 6th Fleet deployment. On 4 October, she stood out of Charleston and arrived in Rota 10 days later. On 16 October, \"Valdez\" reentered the Mediterranean. The ship spent the remainder of the year and the initial months of 1977 engaged in operations with the 6th Fleet. \"Valdez\" returned to Charleston on 21 April and commenced 30 days of leave and upkeep.\n\nFollowing a summer devoted to operations off the east coast, the fleet frigate began preparations for another overseas period, this time a deployment to the North Atlantic. She departed Charleston on 27 September to join a NATO task group for Exercise \"Combined Effort.\" During the next two months, \"Valdez\" engaged in other NATO exercises at sea interspersed with port visits. Her ports of call included Lisbon, Portugal; Portsmouth, England; Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Bremerhaven, Germany; and Cherbourg, France. \"Valdez\" returned to Charleston on 2 December and remained there into the new year.\n\nThe ship got underway on 16 January 1978 for a three-month good will cruise to West Africa and South America. Countries on her agenda consisted of Morocco, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Togo, Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Senegal, and Brazil. \"Valdez \"returned to Charleston on 18 April. A month of repairs and leave followed. The summer was spent conducting operations out of her home port. On 12 September, \"Valdez\" departed Charleston for Boston, Massachusetts where she commenced a regular overhaul on 15 September at the Bethlehem Steel shipyard. The ship remained there into 1979.\n\n\"Valdez\" was decommissioned on 16 December 1991 after seventeen years and four months in active, and struck from the Naval Vessel Register on 11 January 1995.\nUSS \"Valdez\" was leased to Taiwan 29 April 1998 and renamed \"Yi Yang\" (FF-939). The ship was commissioned 18 October 1999 and is still in service.\n\n\n", "id": "7720412", "categories": ["1973 ships", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Knox-class frigates"], "title": "USS Valdez"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720417", "text": "USS Moinester\n\nUSS \"Moinester\" (FF-1097) was a . The ship was named for LTJG Robert W. Moinester who was posthumously awarded the Silver Star during the Vietnam War in 1968. \"Moinester\" was christened by Mrs. Gertrude Mahoney Moinester, the mother of the ship's namesake and ship sponsor.\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class design was derived from the modified to extend range and without a long-range missile system. The ships had an overall length of , a beam of and a draft of . They displaced at full load. Their crew consisted of 13 officers and 211 enlisted men.\n\nThe ships were equipped with one Westinghouse geared steam turbine that drove the single propeller shaft. The turbine was designed to produce , using steam provided by 2 C-E boilers, to reach the designed speed of . The \"Knox\" class had a range of at a speed of .\n\nThe \"Knox\"-class ships were armed with a 5\"/54 caliber Mark 42 gun forward and a single 3\"/50 caliber gun aft. They mounted an eight-round ASROC launcher between the gun and the bridge. Close-range anti-submarine defense was provided by two twin Mk 32 torpedo tubes. The ships were equipped with a torpedo-carrying DASH drone helicopter; its telescoping hangar and landing pad were positioned amidships aft of the mast. Beginning in the 1970s, the DASH was replaced by a SH-2 Seasprite LAMPS I helicopter and the hangar and landing deck were accordingly enlarged. Most ships also had the gun replaced by an eight-cell BPDMS missile launcher in the early 1970s.\n\n\"Moinester\" was decommissioned and sold to the Egyptian Navy and became the Egyptian frigate \"Rasheed\" (F966). , \"Rasheed\" remained active in the Egyptian Navy.\n\n\n", "id": "7720417", "categories": ["Knox-class frigates", "1973 ships", "Cold War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Knox-class frigates of the Egyptian Navy"], "title": "USS Moinester"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720434", "text": "Tea with the Black Dragon\n\nTea with the Black Dragon is a 1983 fantasy novel by American writer R. A. MacAvoy. It was nominated for the Nebula Award for Best Novel in 1983, the Hugo Award for Best Novel in 1984, and the Locus Award for best first novel in 1984; it also earned MacAvoy the John W. Campbell Award for Best New Writer. It also found a place in David Pringle's \"\" (1988).\n\nMartha Macnamara, is called west to San Francisco by a message from her daughter Elizabeth, a computer programmer. When she arrives, however, Elizabeth has disappeared. Mayland Long, an Asian gentleman who is skilled in both human and computer languages — and who may be a transformed 2,000-year-old Chinese dragon —aids Martha in her search for her daughter. As they search for clues to Elizabeth's disappearance, they discover hints that Elizabeth is involved in a dangerous crime.\n\nDavid Langford has called it a \"pleasant little novel\" and \"engaging\", while qualifying it as \"only \"just\" fantasy\". James Nicoll has cited it as an example of how perception of a book can be affected by historical context, noting that when he reread it in 2014, it was \"still an often charming period piece, just not as charming\" as it was when he originally read it in 1983; in particular, he emphasizes that it \"isn't quite\" an example of the \"white savior\" trope, but \"this book can see [\"white savior\"] from where it is standing\". Similarly, Jo Walton —while praising MacAvoy's approach to the novel's central philosophical questions — states that she \"remember(s) being excited by what seems to me today [in 2010] to be charming, but quite slight\", and posits that \"a great deal of the popularity and acclaim came from how lovely it is, and the rest of it came from how amazingly unusual it was in 1983 to have a fantasy novel using Chinese mythology and with a Chinese protagonist\".\n\n", "id": "7720434", "categories": ["Contemporary fantasy novels", "Novels set in San Francisco", "1983 fantasy novels", "Locus Award-winning works", "American fantasy novels", "1983 American novels"], "title": "Tea with the Black Dragon"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720438", "text": "Daughters of Abraham\n\nThe Daughters of Abraham is an interfaith book group consisting of Jewish, Christian, and Muslim women. Its mission is to overcome stereotypes and to foster mutual respect and understanding among Jewish, Christian, and Muslim women.\n\nThe first group was founded in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States, in 2002. Groups then formed in Cambridge, Newton, Massachusetts, Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts (at Boston College), and Washington, DC.\n\nThe purpose is to increase respect for all of the Abrahamic religions by reading books that teach about faith traditions and the practice of the respective faiths. The group members are committed to building relationships with each other. Daughters of Abraham is not a dialogue group, but a book group focused on discussions of books that explore the three faith traditions.\n\nAny Jewish, Christian or Muslim woman who shares the Daughters' purpose can join.\n\nThe Daughters of Abraham was the inspiration of Edie Howe. She attended an interfaith service on the evening of September 11, 2001 and sat with Jewish, Christian and Muslim women. Looking around, she wondered what she could do to respond to the tragic events of that day. She decided to form a book group of women from the three Abrahamic faiths. This first group has been meeting since September 2002.\n\nIn all three of the religious traditions, Abraham is revered as the first monotheist. In this sense, he is the \"father\" and the members can be thought of as his \"daughters.\" Even though they are \"daughters\" of different \"mothers,\" Sarah and Hagar, Abraham is the father of all three religions. By naming themselves Abraham's daughters, the group members are saying that there is more holding them together than separating them.\n\nGroup members listen and speak respectfully to one another, do not to monopolize the conversation, and speak from personal experience rather than making sweeping statements.\n\nMembers suggest books at the meetings. Periodically, they review all the suggestions, then by consensus, choose the books that will be read. If anyone strongly objects to reading a particular book, it is not read.\n\n\n", "id": "7720438", "categories": ["Women's religious organizations", "Interfaith organizations"], "title": "Daughters of Abraham"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720444", "text": "Héctor-Neri Castañeda\n\nHéctor-Neri Castañeda (December 13, 1924 – September 7, 1991) was a Guatemalan philosopher and founder of the journal \"Noûs\".\n\nBorn in San Vicente, Zacapa, Guatemala, he emigrated to the United States in 1948 and studied under Wilfrid Sellars at the University of Minnesota, where he earned a B.A. in 1950 and M.A. in 1952. Castañeda received his Ph.D. in June 1954 for his dissertation \"The Logical Structure of Moral Reasoning\". He studied at Oxford University from 1955–1956, after which he once again returned to the US to take a sabbatical-replacement position in philosophy at Duke University. Castañeda is noted for his development of guise theory, which he applied to outstanding problems in the analysis of thought, language, and the structure of the world. He is also credited with the discovery of the \"quasi-indicator\" or \"quasi-indexical\", a linguistic device by which one person can attribute an indexical reference to another. His discussion on this matter strongly influenced John Perry's theory of indexicals, an influence which Perry acknowledged in the first footnote of the paper \"The Problem of the Essential Indexical\".\n\nHe died of a brain tumor in 1991.\n\nFollowing his brief stay at Duke University, Castañeda's first full-time academic appointment was as a professor in the Philosophy department at Wayne State University, where he taught from 1957–1969. It was there that he founded the philosophical journal \"Noûs\", in 1967. From 1962–1963, he was also a visiting professor at the University of Texas at Austin. He was granted a fellowship from the Guggenheim Foundation between 1967 and 1968.\n\nHe moved to Indiana University in 1969, and eventually became the Mahlon Powell Professor of Philosophy as well as that university's first Dean of Latino Affairs, a position he held from 1978–1981. He was a fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences from 1981–1982.\n\nIn addition to his other academic honors, Castañeda received grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, and the National Science Foundation. He served as President of the American Philosophical Association Central Division from 1979–1980, and was named to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1990. Castañeda was awarded the Presidential Medal of Honor by the Government of Guatemala in 1991.\n\nCastañeda started from the fact that thoughts about real things in the world are of a fundamentally similar nature to thoughts about things in the imagination, it is still a thought, and from there he hypothesized an entire realm of abstract objects that included both the real and the imagined. He referred to these objects collectively as \"guises\", and argued that they could be treated as sets of properties. He went on to analyse all of language and perception in terms of these guises, ultimately developing an entire metaphysics based on them.\n\nOne noted critic of guise theory was Plantinga, who developed his own rival theory involving a realm of abstract objects. Both theories were in fact based on even earlier work developed by Ernst Mally in 1912. They differed, however, in the details of their metaphysical system and in how they regarded the basic building blocks of their respective systems.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7720444", "categories": ["Wayne State University faculty", "University of Minnesota alumni", "Philosophers of language", "Duke University faculty", "1991 deaths", "1924 births", "Indiana University faculty", "Analytic philosophers", "20th-century Guatemalan philosophers", "University of Texas at Austin faculty", "Guatemalan emigrants to the United States"], "title": "Héctor-Neri Castañeda"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720450", "text": "Razor Shines\n\nAnthony Razor Shines (born July 18, 1956) is a retired baseball player who played first base for the Montreal Expos for four seasons, from 1983–1985 and 1987. He also served as a base coach for the New York Mets from 2009 to 2010.\n\nShines was born in Durham, North Carolina. He was drafted by the Montreal Expos in the 18th round of the 1978 MLB Draft out of St. Augustine's College in Raleigh, North Carolina.\n\nThe Expos assigned him to the Jamestown Expos in the New York–Penn League for his first season in 1978. He spent the next three seasons (1979–1981) with the West Palm Beach Expos of the Florida State League. Shines was promoted to the Memphis Chicks of the Southern League in 1981 and remained there through 1983, when he was promoted to the AAA Wichita Aeros of the American Association.\n\nHe made his Major League debut on September 9, 1983 as a pinch hitter against the New York Mets but did not get an official appearance because the Mets made a pitching change and he was subsequently pinch hit for himself. He played in two more games that season, as late inning defensive replacement against the Chicago Cubs on September 12 and as a pinch hitter on October 2 against the Mets. He recorded his first Major League hit in that at-bat, a single to left field off of Tim Leary.\n\nIn parts of four Major League seasons with the Expos he played in 68 games and had 81 at bats, 15 hits, one double, five RBI, one stolen base, five walks, a .185 batting average, .239 on-base percentage, .198 slugging percentage, 16 total bases and one sacrifice fly. He also pitched an inning in a blowout loss to the Philadelphia Phillies in 1985.\n\nHe spent the majority of nine seasons with the Indianapolis Indians, and he became a local legend and fan favorite within the city of Indianapolis.\n\nHe became a free agent in 1990 and signed with the Pittsburgh Pirates, who sent him to the Buffalo Bisons, where he hit .170 in 42 games. When the Pirates released him during the season, he signed with the Mexico City Reds of the Mexican League.\n\nHe retired after spending 1993 in the Cincinnati Reds system.\n\nOn May 16, 2006, the Indianapolis Indians honored Shines, who was managing the visiting Charlotte Knights, with a \"Razor Shines Night.\" Shines kept his residence in Indianapolis during his playing years and for a few years afterwards. After retirement, he began his coaching career there at a local baseball academy and at Bishop Chatard High School. Shines also coached at Lebanon High School in Lebanon, Indiana, for the 1997–1998 season.\n\nHe later became a minor league manager, where he managed the Birmingham Barons of the Southern League and the Clearwater Threshers of the Florida State League.\n\nShines has over 500 wins as a minor league manager.\n\nIn 2007, he was back in Major League Baseball, coaching at third base for the Chicago White Sox.\n\nOn December 12, 2007, Shines was named manager of the Phillies single-A Clearwater Threshers team. He managed the Threshers to a 64-76 record in 2008.\n\nShines served as the first base coach for the New York Mets for the 2009 and 2010 seasons. In 2011, he was replaced by Mookie Wilson. In 2012, he was the hitting coach for the Great Lakes Loons, the A team of the Los Angeles Dodgers. In 2013, he became the manager of the Loons and in 2014 he was promoted to manager of the Chattanooga Lookouts in the Double-A Southern League. The Dodgers switched Double-A affiliates for 2015, and Shines became the manager of the Tulsa Drillers of the Texas League. Despite being chosen by \"Baseball America\" as the best managerial prospect in the Texas League, Shines' contract was not renewed by the Dodgers after the season.\n\nHis son, Devin, played baseball for the Cowboys at Oklahoma State and was drafted by the Dodgers in the 38th round of the 2011 MLB Draft. In 2012, Devin played for his dad with the Great Lakes Loons.\n\nIn 2009, Shines was named by \"Maxim\" as having \"the most bad-ass name of all time\". \"Razor\" is a family name. It was his grandfather's middle name and his father's middle name. His son's middle name is also \"Razor.\"\n\nShines became a spokesman for Aquafina water during the 2009 season and was featured on its website as \"The 3rd Base Coach of Life.\" Visitors to the site could ask yes or no questions and receive \"advice\" from Shines.\n\n, or SABR Biography Project\n", "id": "7720450", "categories": ["Baseball players from North Carolina", "Major League Baseball first basemen", "Minor league baseball managers", "Águilas del Zulia players", "1956 births", "St. Augustine's Falcons baseball players", "Living people", "Major League Baseball first base coaches", "Chicago White Sox coaches", "West Palm Beach Expos players", "Montreal Expos players", "African-American baseball coaches", "Major League Baseball third base coaches", "Birmingham Barons managers", "Buffalo Bisons (minor league) players", "Memphis Chicks players", "Indianapolis Indians players", "Chattanooga Lookouts managers", "African-American baseball players", "American expatriate baseball players in Mexico", "New York Mets coaches", "Diablos Rojos del México players", "Jamestown Expos players", "Sun City Rays players", "African-American baseball managers", "American expatriate baseball players in Canada", "Navegantes del Magallanes players"], "title": "Razor Shines"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720465", "text": "USS W. S. Sims\n\nUSS \"W. S. Sims\" (FF-1059) was a of the United States Navy named for William Sims. She was in commission from 1970 to 1991.\n\n\"W. S. Sims\" was laid down on 10 April 1967, by Avondale Shipyards, Inc., Westwego, Louisiana. She was launched on 5 January 1969, sponsored by Mrs. Robert H. Hopkins (daughter of Admiral Sims), and commissioned on 3 January 1970, with C. M. Plumly in command.\n\nFollowing an extended fitting-out period at the Charleston Naval Shipyard and a restricted availability at Jacksonville Shipyard for correction of minor construction faults, \"W. S. Sims\" became fully operational in June 1970, and proceeded to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for shakedown training. After a two and one-half month post-shakedown availability at the Charleston Naval Shipyard to correct deficiencies uncovered during shakedown and to install additional equipment, \"W. S. Sims\" was put to sea in November to evaluate the feasibility of installing the light airborne multi-purpose system (LAMPS). She was the first ship of her class to have a manned helicopter land on her deck and, during the next four days, she successfully demonstrated the capability of these new ships to operate manned helicopters. Upon completion of the testing, the escort proceeded to her home port, Mayport, Florida, for the holiday season.\n\nOn 11 January 1971, \"W. S. Sims\" left Mayport with personnel from the Key West Testing and Evaluation Detachment embarked. The project consisted of six cruises, numbered 0 to 5, where \"W. S. Sims\" operated with various types of submarines in order to determine the capabilities and limitations of the installed long range underwater sound detection equipment. The tests continued throughout the year and took the escort to such ports as New Orleans; Fredriksted, St. Croix; San Juan, Puerto Rico; and Nassau, Bahamas.\n\nThe ship returned to Mayport in time for Thanksgiving and, between 22 November and 31 December 1971, was involved in a fleet standdown period, during which officials representing the squadron, flotilla, and type commanders conducted a series of inspections.\n\nThe final cruise for the Key West testing project began on 4 January 1972. \"W. S. Sims\" returned to Mayport on 15 January and spent the next month preparing for operations with the 6th Fleet.\n\nOn 15 February 1972, the ocean escort sailed for the Caribbean to participate in \"LantFltRedEx 2-72\" and then proceeded on to the Mediterranean. On 10 March, \"W. S. Sims\" inchopped to the 6th Fleet and took part in various antisubmarine exercises besides visiting Barcelona, Spain, and Naples, Italy. From 27 March to 6 April, the destroyer escort and maintained a close surveillance of Soviet naval units in the south central Mediterranean.\n\n\"W. S. Sims\" visited Gaeta, Italy, and Golfe Juan, France, before taking part in Operation \"Quickdraw\", a combined United States and Italian naval exercise held on 17 April. A visit to Sanremo, Italy, and tender availability at Naples followed the exercise.\n\nOn 8 May 1972, the ship joined in a combined naval exercise, Operation \"Dawn Patrol\", with British, French, and Italian warships. After visiting Sfax, Tunisia, \"W. S. Sims\" conducted special surveillance operations on Soviet submarines from 23 May to 10 June. The ship then participated in Operation \"Good Friendship\" with the Turkish Navy and a second Operation \"Quick Draw\" with the Italian Navy. During August, the crew enjoyed leave at Sanremo, Italy; Barcelona, Spain; and Theoule, France. When relieved \"W. S. Sims\" late that month, the latter headed home and returned to Mayport on 5 September.\n\nUpon completing a month-long standdown period, the ship commenced an extended availability at the Jacksonville Shipyards, Jacksonville, Florida, which lasted through the end of the year and the first three months of 1973. The ship then carried out post-availability sea trials. The discrepancies which the testing uncovered were corrected by 9 April. The following day, the ocean escort steamed south to Roosevelt Roads, Puerto Rico, and joined the surface missile fleet in gunfire support exercises conducted at the Atlantic Fleet weapons range, Culebra Island.\n\nOn 8 May 1973, \"W. S. Sims\" arrived at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for refresher training, but an engineering casualty soon forced her to return to Mayport for repairs. When the corrections had been made, she returned to Cuba and conducted refresher training from the end of May to mid-June. Upon returning to Mayport, the ship executed a LAMPS workup from 17 June to 9 July.\n\nFrom 12 to 26 July, W. S. Sims participated in \"LantRedEx 1-74\" in the Caribbean. As her next assignment, the ship evaluated the basic point defense missile. The ocean escort returned to her home port on 10 August, enabling the crew to enjoy a period of leave and liberty.\n\n\"W. S. Sims\" sailed for North Atlantic and Mediterranean operations on 14 September. Upon arrival, the ship held a LAMPS demonstration for the Royal Netherlands Navy in Amsterdam. At the time of \"W. S. Sims\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> inchop to the 6th Fleet, the Middle East was in a state of war. For the first month and one-half, the ocean escort's duties involved operations in support of United States interests in the Middle East crisis. From 26 November to 30, \"W. S. Sims\" guarded the King of Morocco embarked on the French luxury liner \"Roussilion\" en route to the Arab oil conference held in Algiers, Algeria. The King, as a gesture of gratitude, sent the officers and men a gift of three tons of oranges, tangerines, sardines, and orange juice. After visiting Naples, Italy, and Rota, Spain, \"W. S. Sims\" spent the 1973 holiday season at Valencia, Spain.\n\nOn 4 January 1974, \"W. S. Sims\" stood out of Valencia harbor to operate with . After a visit to Rota and exercises with , the escort ship participated in a search for survivors of a small British trawler; and four of six missing sailors were recovered. On 25 January, she proceeded via Gibraltar to Casablanca, Morocco, where she arrived on 1 February. The following day, the Soviet military attache came on board for a special tour of the ship. After brief stops at Rota and at Bermuda, \"W. S. Sims\" arrived at Mayport on 14 February.\n\nDuring March and April, the ship took part in interim-sea-control ship-evaluation operations in waters between Jacksonville and Charleston. She returned to her home port on 27 April and underwent various inspections. The escort ship commenced tender availability on 6 May. On 1 July 1975, \"W. S. Sims\" was reclassified a frigate and redesignated FF-1059.\n\nOn 7 August, \"W. S. Sims\" sailed for the Portsmouth (New Hampshire) Naval Shipyard for repairs in drydock. She returned to Mayport on 19 September and spent the rest of the year and the first part of 1975 in training and in improving the physical condition of the ship.\n\nOn 15 April 1975, the frigate joined in Fleet Exercise \"Agate Punch\" which involved naval air, surface, subsurface, and land forces. The exercise ended on the 27th, and \"W. S. Sims\" proceeded to the naval weapons station where she offloaded weapons in preparation for going into the shipyard in June.\n\nThe ship suffered an engineering casualty on 30 April and was towed to Charleston for repairs. Upon her arrival back at Mayport on 8 May, \"W. S. Sims\" commenced a month-long tender availability. The escort ship got underway on 11 June for Philadelphia for a nine-month overhaul. The ship went into drydock on 21 June and remained there until 8 December; and, after she was refloated, work renewing the ship continued into the spring of 1976.\n\nAfter tests and sea trials in the Virginia capes area, the ship returned to Mayport on 14 April 1976. From the 23rd to the 27th of that month, \"W. S. Sims\" was moored at Port Everglades and then got underway for Andros Island and trials to evaluate new antisubmarine warfare equipment. She next returned to Mayport and conducted operations in the Jacksonville area.\n\n\"W. S. Sims\" arrived at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, on 23 May and spent the next five weeks in intensive training. After an operational readiness evaluation and gunfire support qualifications at Roosevelt Roads, Puerto Rico, the ship returned to Mayport on 2 July. Tender availability occupied the month of July and continued into August. After completing several inspections, \"W. S. Sims\" got underway on 2 September for a North Atlantic crossing.\n\nEn route, she participated in Operation \"Joint Effort\", a series of exercises conducted in a task group environment. On 14 September, \"W. S. Sims\" was aft of when collided with that carrier and searched the nearby waters for any men who might have been thrown overboard.\n\nThe North Atlantic cruise was divided into four separate operations. \"Joint Effort\", conducted during the crossing, was a workup phase. \"Teamwork 76\" was a major NATO exercise involving the forces of the United States, Great Britain, Belgium, Denmark, West Germany, the Netherlands, and Norway. It included a show of strength in the North Cape area. \"Baltic Operations\" was conducted in the Baltic Sea and was an exercise in fleet steaming in a confined area. \"Bonded Item\", the final exercise, was an exercise designed around an amphibious assault at Jutland.\n\nOn 27 October 1976, \"W. S. Sims\" departed Edinburgh, Scotland; headed home and arrived at Mayport on 9 November. The ship spent the remainder of 1976 and January 1977 in availability. Shipyard work and underway training occupied February. On 1 March, a propulsion examining board embarked; and the ship passed in all respects. During the remainder of the month, the escort ship prepared for an upcoming deployment.\n\n\"W. S. Sims\" departed Mayport on 30 March, bound for Lisbon, Portugal, and a six and one-half month Mediterranean deployment. A severe storm with 20- to seas, encountered en route, damaged the main mast to the point where it had to be supported by riggings of mooring lines. As a result, the ship arrived in Rota rather than Lisbon and remained there from 12 April to 13 May undergoing repairs.\n\nThe destroyer escort then conducted operations in the areas of Crete, Greece, Tunisia, and Sicily. \"W. S. Sims\" arrived at Alexandria, Egypt, on 8 August and, during her visit there, was visited by the American consul general, the Governor of Alexandria, and the Commander in Chief of the Egyptian Navy. She then departed for Augusta Bay, Sicily.\n\n\"National Week XXIII\" began on 15 August and consisted of intensive war games involving both 6th Fleet task groups, elements of the Italian Navy, and American Air Force planes. The exercise concluded on 22 August, when the fleet anchored off Taranto, Italy, for debriefing.\n\nThe crew enjoyed a port visit to Palma de Mallorca, Spain, before going to sea for \"Bystander\" operations near Gibraltar. After a tender availability at Naples, \"W. S. Sims\" joined the NATO Exercise \"Display Determination\"—already in progress—on 24 September. When the exercise ended, the escort ship acted as the sole escort for as they visited Malaga and Rota, Spain. On 14 October, \"W. S. Sims\", along with \"Independence\" and several other ships, departed Rota and arrived at Mayport on the 21st.\n\nThe ship spent most of November undergoing tender availability and, on the 28th, participated in Operation \"Marcot\", a joint operation with the Canadian Navy.\n\nOn 3 December, while operating near Bermuda, the ship lost all power due to an engineering failure. The ship had no power to any equipment except those powered by batteries. An aircraft responded to distress flares and contacted surface ships in the area. responded and came alongside, \"skin to skin\" on the high seas, with all lines tripled. In the midst of six-foot swells, there began heavy movement between the two ships causing frequent contact, buckling several frames in the midships section, and causing considerable superficial damage to the starboard side. After temporary repairs were made, all lines were cleared, and \"W. S. Sims\" returned to home port for repairs. The year 1977 ended with the destroyer escort in restricted availability, conducting repairs on both diesels and structural repairs to the starboard side.\n\n\"W. S. Sims\" remained in restricted availability into March 1978. On the 8th, she joined units of the 2d Fleet in the Caribbean for Exercise \"Safepass \"78\". The ship then proceeded north to provide services for . After refueling at New London, Connecticut, W. S. Sims arrived back at Mayport on 24 March and began an upkeep period until 6 April.\n\nAfter successfully undergoing an operational propulsion plant exam, the frigate got underway for the Caribbean and Exercise \"Comptuex;\" then headed up the Cooper River to moor at the Charleston Naval Station on 27 April. After onloading weapons, the ship returned to her home port for availability and upkeep which lasted through 5 June.\n\n\"W. S. Sims\" conducted tests and inspections at sea, followed by an in port period from 13 to 28 June, during which she completed preparations for the upcoming Mediterranean cruise. On 29 June, the frigate sailed for her fourth and longest Mediterranean cruise. Following her Atlantic crossing, the ship arrived in Malaga on 9 July. After a brief run to Naples, she received on board Admiral H. E. Shear, Commander in Chief, Allied Forces, Southern Europe.\n\nThe ship got underway on 29 July for Augusta Bay, Sicily, and for operations in the Ionian Sea. \"National Week XXV\" was held from 23 July to 5 August. After visiting ports in Greece, she participated in \"Anti-Aircraft Warfare Week\" and returned to Naples on 21 August. During the last week of August, the Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Thomas B. Hayward, paid a visit to tour the ship.\n\nThe month of September found \"W. S. Sims\" taking part in Operation \"Ocean Missilex\" in the eastern Mediterranean; Operation \"Display Determination-78\", a combined NATO operation; and conducting antisubmarine warfare exercises with a Greek destroyer squadron and an opposing Greek submarine. The end of the month found W. S. Sims conducting tests with French submarine Daphne and NATO's oceanographic research ship \"Maria Paola Gee\".\n\nUpon returning to La Spezia, Italy, on 2 November 1978, the ship took part in \"Antisubmarine Warfare Week\" from 7 November to 14 and then underwent intermediate maintenance availability at Cartagena, Spain. The frigate arrived at Toulon, France, on 9 December for a 10-day visit. \"W. S. Sims\" spent the holiday season from 21 December until the year ended in Alicante, Spain.\n\nLate in January 1979, \"W. S. Sims\" departed Malaga; and she arrived at Mayport in February. She remained at her home port through May preparing for an upcoming shipyard period. After a brief visit to Portland, Maine, W. S. Sims reported to the Bath Iron Works, Bath, Maine, on 7 May 1979 for an overhaul.\n\nShe was scheduled to return to Mayport in March 1980 and resume operations.\n\n\"W. S. Sims\" was decommissioned on 6 September 1991 and stricken from the Naval Vessel Register on 11 January 1995. She was transferred to Turkey on 21 December 1999 as a parts hulk.\n\n", "id": "7720465", "categories": ["1969 ships", "Knox-class frigates", "Ships built in Bridge City, Louisiana", "Cold War frigates and destroyer escorts of the United States"], "title": "USS W. S. Sims"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720479", "text": "Anthony Hylton\n\nGeorge Anthony Hylton (born 27 April 1957) is a Jamaican politician who served as Minister of Foreign Affairs from 2006 to 2007. \n\nHylton has been Member of Parliament with the People's National Party from Western Saint Thomas Parish, Jamaica since 1993. He has held other portfolios including Minister of Foreign Trade as well as Mining and Energy. \n\nIn 2014, he faced charges of breaching the Parliamentary Integrity of Members Act. As of 2016, he is the opposition spokesperson on industry, investment and commerce.\n\nHe was educated at Georgetown University Law center and Morgan State University. Hylton's niece is gymnast and Olympics competitor Toni-Ann Williams.\n\n", "id": "7720479", "categories": ["Foreign ministers of Jamaica", "Government ministers of Jamaica", "People's National Party (Jamaica) politicians", "Living people", "Morgan State University alumni", "Georgetown University Law Center alumni", "Members of the House of Representatives of Jamaica", "1957 births", "People from Saint Thomas Parish, Jamaica"], "title": "Anthony Hylton"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720492", "text": "HLA-C\n\nHLA-C belongs to the MHC (human = HLA) class I heavy chain receptors. The C receptor is a heterodimer consisting of a HLA-C mature gene product and β2-microglobulin. The mature C chain is anchored in the membrane. MHC Class I molecules, like HLA-C, are expressed in nearly all cells, and present small peptides to the immune system which surveys for non-self peptides.\n\nHLA-C is a locus on chromosome 6, which encodes for a large number of HLA-C alleles that are Class-I MHC receptors. HLA-C, localized proximal to the HLA-B locus, is located on the distal end of the HLA region. Most HLA-C:B haplotypes are in strong linkage disequilibrium and many are as ancient as the human species itself.\n\nCw1: multinodular goiters\n\nC*16: B chronic lymphocytic leukemia\n\nC*01 \n\nC*02\n\nC*03\n\nC*04\n\nC*05\n\nC*06\n\nC*08\n\nOthers\n\nCw4-B35 (Western Africa to Native Americans) \nCw7-B7 (Western Eurasia, South Africa)\nCw7-B8 (Western Eurasia)\nCw1-B46 (China, Indochina)\nCw5-B44 (Western Eurasia)\n\nHLA-C has been shown to interact with:\n\n\n", "id": "7720492", "categories": [], "title": "HLA-C"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720495", "text": "Michael Whalen (journalist)\n\nMichael Whalen is a Canadian sports journalist. He has worked for TSN since 1985, reporting on Montreal sports teams, and the Quebec Nordiques. Whalen also reported on the Habs' 1986 and 1993 Stanley Cup runs, the demise of the Montreal Alouettes, and the sale of the Quebec Nordiques to Colorado. He was also a key figure in TSN's coverage of the 1994-95 NHL lockout. He has previously worked for CBC Radio and CFCF-TV as a science and medicine reporter.\n\n", "id": "7720495", "categories": ["Canadian Football League announcers", "Canadian television sportscasters", "Anglophone Quebec people", "Journalists from Quebec", "People from Montreal", "Year of birth missing (living people)", "National Hockey League broadcasters", "Living people", "Burials at San Fernando Mission Cemetery"], "title": "Michael Whalen (journalist)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720519", "text": "Charles F. Hurley\n\nCharles Francis Hurley (November 24, 1893 – March 24, 1946) was the 54th Governor of the U.S. state of Massachusetts and one of its first Irish-American governors.\n\nCharles Francis Hurley was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts, to John and Elizabeth (Maker) Hurley. He attended public schools in Cambridge, then Boston College High School, and then studied for two years at Boston College. He became a salesman for athletic goods, and entered the United States Navy in the First World War, serving in a radio intelligence unit stationed at Harvard University. After the war Hurley entered the real estate business, in partnership with James M. Conley. In 1924 he married Conley's daughter Marion; the couple had five children.\n\nHurley's entry into politics was in 1919, when he won election to the Cambridge school committee, on which he served until 1931. \nGovernor Hurley's administration was a brief departure from the increasing ethnic conflict between Yankee Protestants and Irish-American Catholics in political machines, party control, and business influence which had marked the state's early 20th century history. In 1930 he ran as a Democrat for the position of Massachusetts State Treasurer, winning three consecutive two-year terms. In 1936 he won the nomination for Governor (James Michael Curley, the Democratic incumbent, was seeking a Senate seat), and then won the general election, defeating Republican John W. Haigis.\n\nAs a result of immigration in the late 19th and early 20th century, the predominant power of the native American classes had first eroded in Boston and then the state with brief checks and restoration of Yankee power in the interim. While Irish immigration had been reduced to a trickle with the Immigration Act of 1924 further immigration was negligible and the state turned to a process of assimilation and competition between the two groups for remaining power. Hurley represented the more legitimate side to Irish American politics and he attempted to prove the Americanization of his ethnic community by turning away from ethnic spoils which had marked his previous predecessors. Included amongst his program of cleaning up the civil service were the regulation of labor practices and emphasis on individual rights. \n\nDuring Governor Hurley's administration the Fair Trades Laws were passed which regulated the use of private police in strikes, imposed a minimum wage for women and children, and further regulated industrial work. While these practices endeared him to both ethnic groups, his administration also marked a departure from past practices with its increasing liberalism. Although both Yankee and Irish American voters had favored it, he vetoed a law to require teachers to take loyalty oaths. Additionally he raised the ire of Georgia's Governor Eurith D. Rivers by refusing to extradite James Cunningham who had escaped from a Georgia chain gang thirteen years earlier. Hurley further upset Yankee and Irish interests which had a long tradition of local representative democracy when he also approved a fifth form of municipal government in Massachusetts, called Plan E. This allowed for an appointed city manager and a city council drawn from a proportional representation of the vote, rather than a collection of majority elected precinct candidates. Yankee interests in several cities, such as Boston, had cherished their old Charter government from both historical precedence and the ability of ward representatives in protecting their interests in the majority Irish American city. The later in turn had long used the form of government in defending their interests when they were a minority and saw its abolition as a direct threat to their way of conducting business.\n\nFaced with a reinvigorated Yankee political machine and a loss of support amongst his own constituents, particularly the still powerful Irish mob, Hurley was denied reelection when former Governor Curley won the 1938 Democratic gubernatorial nomination.\n\nHe returned to private life, serving as a trustee of the Cambridge Public Library from 1941 until his death. He died on March 24, 1946.\n\nThe Charles F. Hurley Building in Boston's Government Center complex is named after him.\n", "id": "7720519", "categories": ["1893 births", "1946 deaths", "Boston College alumni", "Democratic Party state governors of the United States", "American people of Irish descent", "20th-century American politicians", "Massachusetts Democrats", "People from Cambridge, Massachusetts", "Governors of Massachusetts", "State treasurers of Massachusetts"], "title": "Charles F. Hurley"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720531", "text": "Criticism of communist party rule\n\nThe actions by governments of communist states have been subject to criticism. According to critics, the rule by Communist parties leads to totalitarianism, political repression, restrictions of human rights, poor economic performance and cultural and artistic censorship.\n\nAfter the Russian Revolution, communist party rule was consolidated for the first time in Soviet Russia (later the largest constituent republic of the Soviet Union, formed in December 1922) and criticized immediately domestically and internationally. During the first Red Scare in the United States, the takeover of Russia by the communist Bolsheviks was considered by many a threat to free markets, religious freedom and liberal democracy. Meanwhile, under the tutelage of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union the only party permitted by the Soviet Union constitution, state institutions were intimately entwined with those of the party. By the late 1920s, Joseph Stalin consolidated the regime's control over the country's economy and society through a system of economic planning and five-year plans.\n\nBetween the Russian Revolution and the Second World War, Soviet-style communist rule only spread to one state that was not later incorporated into the Soviet Union. In 1924, communist rule was established in neighboring Mongolia, a traditional outpost of Russian influence bordering the Siberian region. However, throughout much of Europe and the Americas criticism of the domestic and foreign policies of the Soviet regime among anticommunists continued unabated. After the end of World War II, Soviet Union took control over the territories reached by the Red Army, establishing what later became known as Eastern Bloc.\n\nFollowing the Chinese Revolution, the People's Republic of China was proclaimed in 1949 under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party. Between the Chinese Revolution and the last quarter of the 20th century, communist rule spread throughout East Asia and much of the Third World and new communist regimes became the subject of extensive local and international criticism.\n\nWestern criticisms of the Soviet Union and Third World communist regimes have been strongly anchored in scholarship on totalitarianism, which asserts that communist parties maintain themselves in power without the consent of the populations and they rule by means of secret police, propaganda disseminated through the state-controlled mass media, repression of free discussion and criticism, mass surveillance and state terror. These studies of totalitarianism influenced Western historiography on communism and Soviet history, particularly the work of Robert Conquest and Richard Pipes on Stalinism, the Great Purge, the Gulag and the Soviet famine of 1932–1933. Western criticisms of communist rule have also been grounded in criticisms of socialism by economists such as Friedrich Hayek and Milton Friedman, who argued that the state ownership and economic planning characteristic of Soviet-style communist rule were responsible for economic stagnation and shortage economies, providing few incentives for individuals to improve productivity and engage in entrepreneurship.\n\nRuling communist parties have also been challenged by domestic dissent. In Eastern Europe, the works of dissidents Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn and Václav Havel gained international prominence as did the works of disillusioned ex-communists such as Milovan Djilas, who condemned the \"new class\" or \"nomenklatura\" system that had emerged under communist rule. \"Communism: Promise and Practice\" (1973) detailed what its author termed flagrant gaps between official Soviet policies of equality and economic justice and the reality of the emergence of a new class in the Soviet Union and in other communist countries, which thrived at the expense of the remaining population.\n\nCriticisms of communist regimes have centered on many topics, including their effects on the economic development, human rights, foreign policy, scientific progress and environmental degradation of the countries they rule.\n\nPolitical repression is a topic in many influential works critical of communist rule, including Robert Conquest's accounts of Stalin's Great Purge in \"The Great Terror\" and the Soviet famine of 1932–1933 in \"The Harvest of Sorrow\"; Richard Pipes' account of the \"Red Terror\" during the Russian Civil War; R.J. Rummel's work on \"democide\"; Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's account of Stalin's forced labor camps in \"The Gulag Archipelago\"; and Stéphane Courtois' account of executions, forced labor camps and mass starvation in communist regimes as a general category, with particular attention to the Soviet Union under Joseph Stalin and China under Mao Zedong.\n\nSoviet-style central planning and state ownership has been another topic of criticism of communist rule. Works by economists such as Friedrich Hayek and Milton Friedman argue that the economic structures associated with communist rule resulted in economic stagnation. Other topics of criticism of communist rule include foreign policies of \"expansionism\", environmental degradation and the suppression of free cultural expression.\n\nLarge-scale political repression under communist rule has been the subject of extensive historical research by scholars and activists from a diverse range of perspectives. A number of researchers on this subject are former Eastern bloc communists who become disillusioned with their ruling parties, such as Alexander Nikolaevich Yakovlev and Dmitri Volkogonov. Similarly, Jung Chang, one of the authors of \"\", was a Red Guard in her youth. Others are disillusioned former Western communists, including several of the authors of \"The Black Book of Communism\". Robert Conquest, another former communist, became one of the best-known writers on the Soviet Union following the publication of his influential account of the Great Purge in \"The Great Terror\", which at first was not well received in some left-leaning circles of Western intellectuals. Following the end of the Cold War, much of the research on this topic has focused on state archives previously classified under communist rule.\n\nThe level of political repression experienced in states under communist rule varied widely between different countries and historical periods. The most rigid censorship was practiced by the Soviet Union under Stalin (1922–1953), China under Mao during the Cultural Revolution (1966–1976) and the communist regime in North Korea throughout its rule (1948–present). Under Stalin's rule, political repression in the Soviet Union included executions of Great Purge victims and peasants deemed \"kulaks\" by state authorities; the Gulag system of forced labor camps; deportations of ethnic minorities; and mass starvations during the Soviet famine of 1932–1933, caused by either government mismanagement, or by some accounts, caused deliberately. \"The Black Book of Communism\" also details the mass starvations resulting from Great Leap Forward in China and the Killing Fields in Cambodia.\n\nAlthough political repression in the Soviet Union was far more extensive and severe in its methods under Stalin's rule than in any other period, authors such as Richard Pipes, Orlando Figes and works such as the \"Black Book of Communism\" argue that a reign of terror began within Russia under the leadership of Vladimir Lenin immediately after the October Revolution, and continued by the Red Army and the Cheka over the country during the Russian Civil War. It included summary executions of hundreds of thousands of \"class enemies\" by Cheka; the development of the system of labor camps, which would later lay the foundation for the Gulags; and a policy of food requisitioning during the civil war, which was partially responsible for a famine causing three to ten million deaths.\n\nAlexander Nikolaevich Yakovlev's critiques of political repression under communist rule focus on the treatment of children, which he numbers in the millions, of alleged political opponents. His accounts stress cases in which children of former imperial officers and peasants were held as hostages and sometimes shot during the civil war. His account of the Second World War highlights cases in which the children of soldiers who had surrendered were the victims of state reprisal. Some children, Yakovlev notes, followed their parents to the Gulags, suffering an especially high mortality rate. According to Yakovlev, in 1954 there were 884,057 \"specially resettled\" children under the age of sixteen. Others were placed in special orphanages run by the secret police in order to be reeducated, often losing even their names, and were considered socially dangerous as adults.\n\nOther accounts focus on extensive networks of civilian informants, consisting of either volunteers, or those forcibly recruited. These networks were used to collect intelligence for the government and report cases of dissent. Many accounts of political repression in the Soviet Union highlight cases in which internal critics were classified as mentally ill (suffering from disorders such as sluggishly progressing schizophrenia) and incarcerated in mental hospitals. The fact that workers in the Soviet Union were not allowed to organize independent, non-state trade union has also been presented as a case of political repression in the Soviet Union.\n\nVarious accounts stressing a relationship between political repression and communist rule focus on the suppression of internal uprisings by military force, such as the Tambov rebellion and the Kronstadt rebellion during the Russian Civil War, and the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 in China.\n\nEx-communist dissident Milovan Djilas, among others, focused on the relationship between political repression and the rise of a powerful \"new class\" of party bureaucrats that had emerged under communist rule, and exploited the rest of the population (see nomenklatura).\n\nBoth anti-communists and communists have criticized the personality cults of many communist rulers, especially the cults of Stalin, Mao, Fidel Castro and Kim Il-sung. In the case of North Korea, the personality cult of Kim Il-sung was associated with inherited leadership, with the succession of Kim's son Kim Jong-il in 1994 and grandson Kim Jong-un in 2011. Cuban communists have also been criticized for planning an inherited leadership, with the succession of Raúl Castro following his brother's illness in mid-2006.\n\nIn the literature on communist rule, many anticommunists have asserted that communist regimes tend to impose harsh restrictions on the freedom of movement. These restrictions, they argue, are meant to stem the possibility of mass emigration, which threatens to offer evidence pointing to widespread popular dissatisfaction with their rule.\n\nBetween 1950 and 1961, 2.75 million East Germans moved to West Germany. During the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 around 200,000 people moved to Austria as the Hungarian-Austrian border temporarily opened. From 1948 to 1953 hundreds of thousands of North Koreans moved to the South, stopped only when emigration was clamped down after the Korean War.\n\nIn Cuba, 50,000 middle-class Cubans left between 1959 and 1961 after the Cuban Revolution and the breakdown of Cuban-American relations. Following a period of repressive measures by the Cuban government in the late 1960s and 1970s, Cuba allowed for mass emigration of dissatisfied citizens, a policy that resulted in the Mariel Boatlift of 1980, which led to a drop in emigration rates during the later months. In the 1990s, the economic crisis known as the Special Period coupled with the United States' tightening of the embargo led to desperate attempts to leave the island on \"balsas\" (rafts, tires and makeshift vessels). Many Cubans currently continue attempts to emigrate to the United States In total, according to some estimates, more than 1 million people have left Cuba, around 10% of the population. Between 1971 and 1998, 547,000 Cubans emigrated to the United States alongside 700,000 neighboring Dominicans, 335,000 Haitians and 485,000 Jamaicans. Since 1966, immigration to the United States was governed by the 1966 Cuban adjustment act, a United States law that applies solely to Cubans. The ruling allows any Cuban national, no matter the means of the entry into the United States, to receive a green card after being in the country a year. Havana has long argued that the policy has encouraged the illegal exodus, deliberately ignoring and undervaluing the life-threatening hardships endured by refugees.\n\nAfter the victory of the communist North in the Vietnam War, over 2 million people in former South Vietnamese territory left the country (see Vietnamese boat people) in the 1970s and 1980s. Another large group of refugees left Cambodia and Laos.\n\nRestrictions on emigration from states ruled by communist parties received extensive publicity. In the West, the Berlin wall emerged as a symbol of such restrictions. During the Berlin Wall's existence, sixty thousand people unsuccessfully attempted to emigrate illegally from East Germany and received jail terms for such actions; there were around five thousand successful escapes into West Berlin; and 239 people were killed trying to cross.\n\nNorth Korea currently imposes strict restrictions on emigration.\n\nAlbania and North Korea perhaps imposed the most extreme restrictions on emigration. From most other communist regimes, legal emigration was always possible, though often so difficult that attempted emigrants would risk their lives in order to emigrate. Some of these states relaxed emigration laws significantly from the 1960s onwards. Tens of thousands of Soviet citizens emigrated legally every year during the 1970s.\n\nThe Chinese government takes these restrictions even further by restriction of movement within their own borders. Workers in rural areas must obtain permission to obtain work at factories within urban areas. Many rural citizens, especially young men, facing lack of education and other services that are provided free of charge to people living in cities and urban areas, choose to obtain under-the-table work in urban areas where there are labor shortages, leading to an illegal immigration problem within the country. These restrictions are not for the political reasons other regimes have used, but to maintain the central government planned economy and \"caste\" system that seeks to retain the knowledge and skills needed in different fields of the economy: Agriculture, Industry, Fishing, etc. One belief is that China is trying to reduce overpopulation of urban areas and avoid the loss of specialized skills usually passed from generation to generation in the traditional fields.\n\nAs an ideology, Marxism-Leninism stresses militant opposition to imperialism. Vladimir Lenin considered imperialism \"the highest stage of capitalism\" and in 1917 made declarations of the unconditional right of self-determination and secession for the national minorities of Russia. Later, during the Cold War, communist states exercised imperialism by giving military assistance and in some cases intervening directly on behalf of Communist movements that were fighting for control, particularly in Asia and Africa.\n\nWestern critics accused the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China of practicing imperialism themselves, and communist condemnations of Western imperialism hypocritical. The attack on and restoration of Moscow's control of countries that had been under the rule of the tsarist empire, but briefly formed newly independent states in the aftermath of the Russian Civil War (including Armenia, Georgia and Azerbaijan), have been condemned as examples of Soviet imperialism. Similarly, Stalin's forced reassertion of Moscow's rule of the Baltic states in World War II has been condemned as Soviet imperialism. Western critics accused Stalin of creating satellite states in Eastern Europe after the end of World War II. Western critics also condemned the intervention of Soviet forces during the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, the Prague Spring and the war in Afghanistan as aggression against popular uprisings. Maoists argued that the Soviet Union had itself become an imperialist power while maintaining a socialist façade (social imperialism). China's reassertion of central control over territories on the frontiers of the Qing dynasty, particularly Tibet, has also been condemned as imperialistic by some.\n\nAccording to Richard Pipes, the Soviet Union shares some responsibility for World War II. Pipes argues that both Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini used the Soviet Union as a model for their own regimes and that Hitler privately considered Stalin a \"genius\". According to Pipes, Stalin privately hoped that another world war would weaken his foreign enemies and allow him to assert Soviet power internationally. Before Hitler took power, Stalin allowed the testing and production of German weapons that were forbidden by the Versailles Treaty to occur on Soviet territory. Stalin is also accused of weakening German opposition to the Nazis before Hitler's rule began in 1933. During the 1932 German elections, for instance, he forbade the German Communists from collaborating with the Social Democrats. These parties together gained more votes than Hitler and some have later surmised could have prevented him from becoming Chancellor.\n\nSome states under communist rule have been criticized for directly supporting terrorist groups, such as the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, the Red Army Faction and the Japanese Red Army. North Korea has been implicated in terrorist acts such as Korean Air Flight 858.\n\nA number of communist states also held forced labor as a legal form of punishment for certain periods of time and again critics of these policies assert that many of those sentenced to forced labor camps such as the Gulag were sent there for political rather than criminal reasons. Some of the Gulag camps were located in very harsh environments, such as Siberia, which resulted in the death of a significant fraction of inmates before they could complete their prison terms. Officially, the Gulag was shut down in 1960, though they remained de facto in action for some time after.\n\nMany deaths were also caused by involuntary deportations of entire ethnic groups. (\"see\" population transfer in the Soviet Union). Many Prisoners of War taken during World War II were not released as the war ended and died in the Gulags. Many German civilians died as a result of atrocities committed by the Soviet army (\"see\" Evacuation of East Prussia) and due to the policy of ethnic cleansing of Germans from the territories they lost due to the war (see expulsion of Germans after World War II).\n\nNorth Korea continues to maintain a network of prison and labor camps that imprison an estimated 200,000 people. While the country does not regularly deport citizens, there is a system of internal exile and banishment.\n\nScholars such as Stephane Courtois, Steven Rosefielde (in \"Red Holocaust\"), Banjamin Valentino and R.J. Rummel have argued that communist regimes were responsible for tens or even hundreds of millions of deaths. These deaths mostly occurred under the rule of Stalin and Mao, therefore these particular periods of communist rule in Russia and China receive considerable attention in \"The Black Book of Communism\", though other communist regimes have also caused high number of deaths, not least the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia, which is often acclaimed to have killed more of its citizens than any other in history.\n\nThese accounts often divide their death toll estimates into two categories:\n\nIn most communist states, the death penalty was a legal form of punishment for most of their existence, with a few exceptions. The Soviet Union, for example, formally abolished the death penalty between 1947 and 1950, though this did nothing to curb executions and acts of genocide. Critics argue that many of the convicted prisoners executed by authorities under communist rule were not criminals, but political dissidents. Stalin's Great Purge in the late 1930s (from roughly 1936–1938) is given as the most prominent example of the hypothesis.\n\nWith regard to deaths not caused directly by state or party authorities, \"The Black Book of Communism\" points to famine and war as the indirect causes of what they see as deaths for which communist regimes were responsible. In this sense, the Soviet famine of 1932–1933 and the Great Leap Forward are often described as man-made famines. These two events alone killed a majority of the people seen as victims of communist states by estimates such as Courtois'. Courtois also blames Mengistu Haile Mariam's regime in Ethiopia for having exacerbated the 1983–1985 famine by imposing unreasonable political and economic burdens on the population.\n\nThe authors of the \"Black Book of Communism\", R.J. Rummel, Norman Davies and others have attempted to give estimates of the total number of deaths for which communist rule of a particular state in a particular period was responsible, or the total for all states under communist rule. The question is complicated by the lack of hard data and by biases inherent in any estimation.\n\nThe number of people killed under Joseph Stalin's rule in the Soviet Union by 1939 has been estimated as 3.5–8 million by G. Ponton, 6.6 million by V.V. Tsaplin and 10–11 million by Alec Nove. The number of people killed under Stalin's rule by the time of his death in 1953 has been estimated as 1–3 million by Stephen G. Wheatcroft, 6–9 million by Timothy D. Snyder, 13–20 million by Steven Rosefielde, 20 million by \"The Black Book of Communism\", 20 to 25 million by Alexander Yakovlev, 43 million by R.J. Rummel and 50 million by Norman Davies.\n\nThe number of people killed under Mao's rule in the People's Republic of China has been estimated at 19.5 million by Wang Weizhi, 27 million by John Heidenrich, between 38 and 67 million by Kurt Glaser and Stephan Possony, between 32 and 59 million by Robert L. Walker, 50+ million by Steven Rosefielde, 65 million by \"The Black Book of Communism\", well over 70 million by \"\" and 77 million by R.J. Rummel.\n\nThe authors of \"The Black Book of Communism\" have also estimated that 9.3 million people were killed under communist rule in other states: 2 million in North Korea, 2 million in Cambodia, 1.7 million in Africa, 1.5 million in Afghanistan, 1 million in Vietnam, 1 million in Eastern Europe and 150,000 in Latin America. R.J. Rummel has estimated that 1.7 million were killed by the government of Vietnam, 1.6 million in North Korea (not counting the 1990s famine), 2 million in Cambodia and 2.5 million in Poland and Yugoslavia. Valentino estimates that 1 to 2 million were killed in Cambodia, 50,000 to 100,000 in Bulgaria, 80,000 to 100,000 in East Germany, 60,000 to 300,000 in Romania, 400,000 to 1,500,000 in North Korea, and 80,000 to 200,000 in North and South Vietnam.\n\nBetween the authors Wiezhi, Heidenrich, Glaser, Possony, Ponton, Tsaplin and Nove, Stalin's Soviet Union and Mao's China have an estimated total death rate ranging from 23 million to 109 million.\n\nThe \"Black Book of Communism\" asserts that roughly 94 million died under all communist regimes while Rummel believes around 144.7 million died under six communist regimes. Benjamin Valentino claims that between 21 and 70 million deaths are attributable to the Communist regimes in the Soviet Union, the People's Republic of China and Democratic Kampuchea alone.\n\nJasper Becker, author of \"Hungry Ghosts\", claims that if the death tolls from the famines caused by communist regimes in China, the Soviet Union, Cambodia, North Korea, Ethiopia and Mozambique are added together, the figure could be close to 90 million.\n\nThese estimates are the three highest numbers of victims blamed on communism by any notable study. However, the totals that include research by Wiezhi, Heidenrich, Glasser, Possony, Ponton, Tsaplin and Nove do not include other periods of time beyond Stalin or Mao's rule, thus it may possible when including other communist states to reach higher totals.\n\nIn a January 25, 2006 resolution condemning the crimes of communist regimes, the Council of Europe cited the 94 million total reached by the authors of the \"Black Book of Communism\".\n\nExplanations have been offered for the discrepancies in the number of estimated victims of communist regimes:\n\nBoth critics and supporters of communist rule often make comparisons between the economic development of countries under communist rule and noncommunist countries, with the intention of certain economic structures are superior to the other. All such comparisons are open to challenge, both on the comparability of the states involved and the statistics being used for comparison. No two countries are identical, which makes comparisons regarding later economic development difficult; Western Europe was more developed and industrialized than Eastern Europe long before the Cold War; World War II damaged the economies of some countries more than others; and East Germany had much of its industry dismantled and moved to the Soviet Union for war reparations.\n\nAdvocates of Soviet-style economic planning have claimed the system has in certain instances produced dramatic advances, including rapid industrialization of the Soviet Union, especially during the 1930s. Critics of Soviet economic planning, in response, assert that new research shows that the Soviet figures were partly fabricated, especially those showing extremely high growth in the Stalin era. Growth was impressive in the 1950s and 1960s, in some estimates much higher than during the 1930s, but later declined and according to some estimates became negative in the late 1980s. Before collectivization, Russia had been the \"breadbasket of Europe\". Afterwards, the Soviet Union became a net importer of grain, unable to produce enough food to feed its own population.\n\nChina and Vietnam achieved much higher rates of growth after introducing market reforms (see socialism with Chinese characteristics) starting in the late 1970s and 1980s—higher growth rates were accompanied by declining poverty.\n\nThe communist states do not compare favorably when looking at nations divided by the Cold War: North Korea versus South Korea; and East Germany versus West Germany. East German productivity relative to West German productivity was around 90 percent in 1936 and around 60–65 percent in 1954. When compared to Western Europe, East German productivity declined from 67 percent in 1950 to 50 percent before the reunification in 1990. All the Eastern European national economies had productivity far below the Western European average.\n\nNevertheless, some countries under communist rule with socialist economies maintained consistently higher rates of economic growth than industrialized Western countries with capitalist economies. From 1928 to 1985, the economy of the Soviet Union grew by a factor of 10 and GNP per capita grew more than fivefold. The Soviet economy started out at roughly 25 percent the size of the economy of the United States. By 1955, it climbed to 40 percent. In 1965, the Soviet economy reached 50% of the contemporary United States economy and in 1977 it passed the 60 percent threshold. For the first half of the Cold War, most economists were asking when, not if, the Soviet economy would overtake the United States economy. Starting in the 1970s and continuing through the 1980s, growth rates slowed down in the Soviet Union and throughout the socialist bloc. The reasons for this downturn are still a matter of debate among economists, but one hypothesis is that the socialist planned economies had reached the limits of the extensive growth model they were pursuing and the downturn was at least in part caused by their refusal or inability to switch to intensive growth. Further, it could be argued that since the economies of countries such as Russia were pre-industrial before the socialist revolutions, the high economic growth rate could be attributed to industrialization. Also while forms of economic growth associated with any economic structure produce some winners and losers, anticommunists point out that high growth rates under communist rule were associated with particularly intense suffering and even mass starvation of the peasant population.\nUnlike the slow market reforms in China and Vietnam where communist rule continues, the abrupt end to central planning was followed by a depression in many of the states of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe which chose to adopt the so-called economic shock therapy. For example, in the Russian Federation GDP per capita decreased by one-third between 1989 and 1996. As of 2003, all of them have positive economic growth and almost all have a higher GDP/capita than before the transition.\n\nIn general, critics of communist rule argue that socialist economies remained behind the industrialized West in terms of economic development for most of their existence while others assert that socialist economies had growth rates that were sometimes higher than many non-socialist economies, so they would have eventually caught up to the West if those growth rates had been maintained. Some reject all comparisons altogether, noting that the communist states started out with economies that were generally much less developed to begin with.\n\nStarting with the first five-year plan in the Soviet Union in the late 1920s and early 1930s, Soviet leaders pursued a strategy of economic development concentrating the country's economic resources on heavy industry and defense rather than on consumer goods. This strategy was later adopted in varying degrees by communist leaders in Eastern Europe and the Third World. For many Western critics of communist strategies of economic development, the unavailability of consumer goods common in the West in the Soviet Union was a case in point of how communist rule resulted in lower standards of living.\n\nThe allegation that communist rule resulted in lower standards of living sharply contrasted with communist arguments boasting of the achievements of the social and cultural programs of the Soviet Union and other communist states. For instance, Soviet leaders boasted of guaranteed employment, subsidized food and clothing, free health care, free child care and free education. Soviet leaders also touted early advances in women's equality, particularly in Islamic areas of Soviet Central Asia. Eastern European communists often touted high levels of literacy in comparison with many parts of the developing world. A phenomenon called Ostalgie, nostalgia for life under Soviet rule, has been noted amongst former members of Communist countries, now living in Western capitalist states, particularly those who lived in the former East Germany.\n\nHowever, the effects of communist rule on living standards have been harshly criticized. Jung Chang stresses that millions died in famines in communist China and North Korea. Some studies conclude that East Germans were shorter than West Germans probably due to differences in factors such as nutrition and medical services. According to some researchers, life satisfaction increased in East Germany after the reunification. Critics of Soviet rule charge that the Soviet education system was full of propaganda and of low quality. United States government researchers pointed out the fact that the Soviet Union spent far less on health care than Western nations and noted that the quality of Soviet health care was deteriorating in the 1970s and 1980s. In addition, the failure of Soviet pension and welfare programs to provide adequate protection was noted in the West.\n\nAfter 1965, life expectancy began to plateau or even decrease, especially for males, in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe while it continued to increase in Western Europe. This divergence between two parts of Europe continued over the course of three decades, leading to a profound gap in the mid-1990s. Life expectancy sharply declined after the change to market economy in most of the states of the former Soviet Union, but may now have started to increase in the Baltic states. In several Eastern European nations, life expectancy started to increase immediately after the fall of communism. The previous decline for males continued for a time in some Eastern European nations, like Romania, before starting to increase.\n\nIn \"The Politics of Bad Faith\", David Horowitz painted a picture of horrendous living standards in the Soviet Union. Horowitz claimed that in the 1980s rationing of meat and sugar was common in the Soviet Union. Horowitz cited studies suggesting the average intake of red meat for a Soviet citizen was half of what it had been for a subject of the tsar in 1913, that blacks under apartheid in South Africa owned more cars per capita and that the average welfare mother in the United States received more income in a month than the average Soviet worker could earn in a year. According to Horowitz, the only area of consumption in which the Soviets excelled was the ingestion of hard liquor. Horowitz also noted that two-thirds of the households had no hot water and a third had no running water at all. Horowitz cited the government newspaper \"Izvestia\", noting a typical working-class family of four was forced to live for eight years in a single eight by eight foot room before marginally better accommodation became available. In his discussion of the Soviet housing shortage, Horowitz stated that the shortage was so acute that at all times 17 percent of Soviet families had to be physically separated for want of adequate space. A third of the hospitals had no running water and the bribery of doctors and nurses to get decent medical attention and even amenities like blankets in Soviet hospitals was not only common, but routine. In his discussion of Soviet education, Horowitz stated that only 15 percent of Soviet youth were able to attend institutions of higher learning compared to 34 percent in the United States. However, large segments of citizens of many former communist today states say that the standard of living has fallen since the end of the Cold War, with majorities of citizens in the former East Germany and Romania were polled as saying that life was better under Communism.\n\nIn terms of living standards, economist Michael Ellman asserts that in international comparisons state socialist nations compared favorably with capitalist nations in health indicators such as infant mortality and life expectancy. Amartya Sen's own analysis of international comparisons of life expectancy found that several communist countries made significant gains and commented \"one thought that is bound to occur is that communism is good for poverty removal\". Poverty exploded following the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, tripling to more than one-third of Russia's population in just three years.\n\nCriticisms of communist rule have often centered on the censorship of the arts. In the case of the Soviet Union, these criticisms often deal with the preferential treatment afforded to socialist realism. Other criticisms center on the large-scale cultural experiments of certain communist regimes. In Romania, the historical center of Bucharest was demolished and the whole city was redesigned between 1977 and 1989. In the Soviet Union, hundreds of churches were demolished or converted to secular purposes during the 1920s and 1930s. In China, the Cultural Revolution sought to give all artistic expression a 'proletarian' content and destroyed much older material lacking this. Advocates of these policies promised to create a new culture that would be superior to the old while critics argue that such policies represented an unjustifiable destruction of the cultural heritage of humanity.\n\nThere is a well-known literature focusing on the role of the falsification of images in the Soviet Union under Stalin. In \"The Commissar Vanishes: The Falsification of Photographs in Stalin's Russia\", David King writes: \"So much falsification took place during the Stalin years that it is possible to tell the story of the Soviet era through retouched photographs\". Under Stalin, historical documents were often the subject of revisionism and forgery, intended to change public perception of certain important people and events. For example, the pivotal role played by Leon Trotsky in the Russian Revolution and Civil War was almost entirely erased from official historical records after Trotsky became the leader of a Communist faction that opposed Stalin's rule.\n\nThe emphasis on the \"hard sciences\" of the Soviet Union has been criticized. There were very few Nobel Prize winners from Communist states.\n\nSoviet research in certain sciences was at times guided by political rather than scientific considerations. Lysenkoism and Japhetic theory were promoted for brief periods of time in biology and linguistics respectively, despite having no scientific merit. Research into genetics was restricted because Nazi use of eugenics had prompted the Soviet Union to label genetics a \"fascist science\". Research was also suppressed in cybernetics, psychology and psychiatry and even organic chemistry (see suppressed research in the Soviet Union)\n\nSoviet technology in many sectors lagged Western technology. Exceptions include areas like the Soviet space program and military technology where occasionally Communist technology was more advanced due to a massive concentration of research resources. According to the Central Intelligence Agency, much of the technology in the Communist states consisted simply of copies of Western products that had been legally purchased or gained through a massive espionage program. Some even say that stricter Western control of the export of technology through the Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls and providing defective technology to Communist agents after the discovery of the Farewell Dossier contributed to the fall of Communism.\n\nOther criticisms of Communist rule focus on environmental disasters. One example is the gradual disappearance of the Aral Sea and a similar diminishing of the Caspian Sea because of the diversion of the rivers that fed them. Another is the pollution of the Black Sea, the Baltic Sea and the unique freshwater environment of Lake Baikal. Many of the rivers were polluted and several, like the Vistula and Oder rivers in Poland, were virtually ecologically dead. Over 70 percent of the surface water in the Soviet Union was polluted. In 1988, only 30 percent of the sewage in the Soviet Union was treated properly. Established health standards for air pollution was exceeded by ten times or more in 103 cities in the Soviet Union in 1988. The air pollution problem was even more severe in Eastern Europe. It caused a rapid growth in lung cancer, forest die-back and damage to buildings and cultural heritages. According to official sources, 58 percent of total agricultural land of the former Soviet Union was affected by salinization, erosion, acidity, or waterlogging. Nuclear waste was dumped in the Sea of Japan, the Arctic Ocean and in locations in the Far East. It was revealed in 1992 that in the city of Moscow there were 636 radioactive toxic waste sites and 1,500 in Saint Petersburg. According to the United States Department of Energy, socialist economies also maintained a much higher level of energy intensity than either the Western nations or the Third World. This analysis is confirmed by the Institute of Economic Affairs, with Mikhail Bernstam stating that economies of the Eastern Bloc had an energy intensity between twice and three times higher as economies of the West. Some see the aforementioned examples of environmental degradation are similar to what had occurred in Western capitalist countries during the height of their drive to industrialize in the 19th century. Others claim that Communist regimes did more damage than average, primarily due to the lack of any popular or political pressure to research environmentally friendly technologies.\n\nSome ecological problems continue unabated after the fall of the Soviet Union and are still major issues today, which has prompted supporters of former ruling Communist parties to accuse their opponents of holding a double standard. However, other environmental problems have improved in every studied former Communist state. Some researchers have argued that part of improvement was largely due to the severe economic downturns in the 1990s that caused many factories to close down.\n\nCommunist countries, states, areas and local communities have been based on the rule of parties proclaiming a basis in Marxism–Leninism, an ideology which is not supported by all Marxists and leftists. Many communists disagree with many of the actions undertaken by ruling Communist parties during the 20th century.\n\nElements of the left opposed to Bolshevik plans before they were put into practice included the revisionist Marxists, such as Eduard Bernstein, who denied the necessity of a revolution. Anarchists (who had differed from Marx and his followers since the split in the First International), many of the Socialist Revolutionaries and the Marxist Mensheviks supported the overthrow of the tsar, but vigorously opposed the seizure of power by Lenin and the Bolsheviks.\n\nCriticisms of Communist rule from the left continued after the creation of the Soviet state. The anarchist Nestor Makhno led the Revolutionary Insurrectionary Army of Ukraine against the Bolsheviks during the Russian Civil War and the Socialist Revolutionary Fanya Kaplan tried to assassinate Lenin. Bertrand Russell visited Russia in 1920 and regarded the Bolsheviks as intelligent, but clueless and planless. In her books about Soviet Russia after the revolution, \"My Disillusionment in Russia\" and \"My Further Disillusionment in Russia\", Emma Goldman condemned the suppression of the Kronstadt rebellion as a \"massacre\". Eventually, the Left Socialist Revolutionaries broke with the Bolsheviks.\n\nAnti-revisionists (which includes radical Marxist–Leninist factions, Hoxhaists and Maoists) criticize the rule of the communist states by claiming that they were state capitalist states ruled by revisionists. Though the periods and countries defined as state capitalist or revisionist varies among different ideologies and parties, all of them accept that the Soviet Union was socialist during Stalin's time. Maoists believe that the People's Republic of China became state capitalist after Mao's death. Hoxhaists believe that the People's Republic of China was always state capitalist and uphold Socialist Albania as the only socialist state after the Soviet Union under Stalin.\n\nLeft communists claim that the \"communist\" or \"socialist\" states or \"people's states\" were actually state capitalist and thus cannot be called \"socialist\". Some of the earliest critics of Leninism were the German-Dutch left communists, including Herman Gorter, Anton Pannekoek and Paul Mattick. Though most left communists see the October Revolution positively, their analysis concludes that by the time of the Kronstadt revolt the revolution had degenerated due to various historical factors. Rosa Luxemburg was another communist who disagreed with Lenin's organizational methods which eventually led to the creation of the Soviet Union.\n\nAmadeo Bordiga wrote about his view of the Soviet Union as a capitalist society. In contrast to those produced by the Trotskyists, Bordiga's writings on the capitalist nature of the Soviet economy also focused on the agrarian sector. Being the engineer that he was, Bordiga displayed a kind of theoretical rigidity which was both exasperating and effective in allowing him to see things differently. He wanted to show how capitalist social relations existed in the kolkhoz and in the sovkhoz, one a cooperative farm and the other the straight wage-labor state farm. He emphasized how much of agrarian production depended on the small privately owned plots (he was writing in 1950) and predicted quite accurately the rates at which the Soviet Union would start importing wheat after Russia had been such a large exporter from the 1880s to 1914. In Bordiga's conception, Stalin and later Mao, Ho Chi Minh and Che Guevara were \"great romantic revolutionaries\" in the 19th century sense, i.e. bourgeois revolutionaries. He felt that the Stalinist regimes that came into existence after 1945 were just extending the bourgeois revolution, i.e. the expropriation of the Prussian Junker class by the Red Army through their agrarian policies and through the development of the productive forces.\n\nAfter the split between Leon Trotsky and Stalin, Trotskyists have argued that Stalin transformed the Soviet Union into a bureaucratic and repressive one-party state and that all subsequent Communist states ultimately followed a similar path because they copied Stalinism. There are various terms used by Trotskyists to define such states, such as \"degenerated workers' state\" and \"deformed workers' state\", \"state capitalist\" or \"bureaucratic collectivist\". While Trotskyists are Leninists, there are other Marxists who reject Leninism entirely, arguing, for example, that the Leninist principle of democratic centralism was the source of the Soviet Union's slide away from communism. Maoists view the Soviet Union and most of its satellites as \"state capitalist\" as a result of destalinization and some of them also view modern China in this light.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7720531", "categories": ["Communism", "Criticisms by ideology", "Communist states"], "title": "Criticism of communist party rule"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720543", "text": "Ken Hamlin (baseball)\n\nKenneth Lee Hamlin (born May 18, 1935) is an American former Major League Baseball shortstop /second baseman. He was signed by the Pittsburgh Pirates as an amateur free agent on June 3, 1957, and played for the Pirates (1957, 1959), Kansas City Athletics (1960), Los Angeles Angels (1961), and Washington Senators (1962, 1965–66).\n\nBorn in Detroit, Hamlin attended Western Michigan University. He made his big league debut for the Pirates two weeks after he signed with them, but only played in five games for them in his two short stays there. He was traded to the Kansas City A's as part of a multi-player deal that headlined pitcher Dick Hall and catcher–third baseman Hal Smith on December 9, 1959.\n\nHe was a good fielder but not strong with the bat. He was in the starting lineup in 366 of the 468 major league games he played in. He received most of his playing time with weaker teams, including the 1960 A's (58–96), 1962 Senators (60–101), and 1965 Senators (70–92).\n\nCareer totals include 323 hits, 11 home runs, 89 runs batted in, 372 runs scored, a .241 batting average, a .304 on-base percentage, and a slugging percentage of .311. His lifetime fielding percentage was .963, which was right around the league average during his era.\n\nCareer highlights include:\n\nIn his retirement years, Hamlin founded and ran Tall Timbers, a sports camp with a baseball emphasis, in Climax, Michigan.\n\n", "id": "7720543", "categories": ["Sportspeople from Detroit", "Los Angeles Angels players", "Living people", "Pittsburgh Pirates players", "Lincoln Chiefs players", "Baseball players from Michigan", "Major League Baseball shortstops", "Columbus Jets players", "Major League Baseball second basemen", "American expatriate baseball players in Mexico", "Kansas City Athletics players", "Tigres del México players", "Toronto Maple Leafs (International League) players", "American expatriate baseball players in Canada", "Rochester Red Wings players", "1935 births"], "title": "Ken Hamlin (baseball)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720545", "text": "Groshong line\n\nA Groshong line is a type of both tunneled or non-tunneled intravenous catheter used for central venous access.\n\nGroshongs may be left in place for extended periods and are used when long-term intravenous therapy is needed, such as for chemotherapy. Similar to the Hickman line, the tip of the catheter is in the superior vena cava, and the catheter is tunneled under the skin to an incision on the chest wall, where the distal end of the catheter exits the body.\n\nIn contrast to the Hickman line, the tip of a Groshong line has a three-way valve, which is formed by a slit in the sidewall of the catheter tip. The valve opens outward during infusion, and opens inward during blood aspiration. When not being accessed, the valve remains closed.\n\nThe insertion of a central Groshong line is usually done under local anesthetic by a interventional anaesthesiologist, interventional radiologist or surgeon. Throughout the procedure, ultrasound and X-rays may be used to confirm placement. When a central venous catheter is inserted, a chest radiologic examination is usually performed to confirm the position of the catheter and absence of pneumothorax. The chest radiologic examination is integral to the procedure.\n\n\"Groshong catheters come in PICC line variations as well. \nThe Groshong catheter is a trademark of Bard Access Systems.\n\nThe Groshong Catheter / Line is named after its inventor, LeRoy E. Groshong, MD, a surgical oncologist, based in Oregon.\n\n", "id": "7720545", "categories": [], "title": "Groshong line"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720554", "text": "Joseph B. Ely\n\nJoseph Buell Ely (February 22, 1881 – June 13, 1956) was an American lawyer and Democratic politician from Massachusetts. As a conservative Democrat, Ely was active in party politics from the late 1910s, helping to build, in conjunction with David I. Walsh, the Democratic coalition that would gain an enduring political ascendancy in the state. From 1931 to 1935, he served as the 52nd Governor. He was opposed to the federal expansion of the New Deal, and was a prominent intra-party voice in opposition to the policies of Franklin Delano Roosevelt. In 1944 he made a brief unsuccessful bid for the Democratic presidential nomination.\n\nJoseph Buell Ely was born in Westfield, Massachusetts, to Henry Wilson Ely and Sarah Naomi Buell Ely. His grandfather, Joseph Miner Ely, was one of the founders of Westfield's important whip industry, and his father, a lawyer, was active in Democratic party circles in heavily Republican western Massachusetts. Ely attended local schools, and then Williams College, where he helped organize student support for William Jennings Bryan in the 1900 presidential election. He graduated from Williams in 1902, and then received a law degree from Harvard Law School in 1905. He returned to Westfield, where he joined his father's law firm. In 1906 he married Harriet Zelda Dyson, a schoolteacher; they had one son.\n\nGovernor David I. Walsh appointed Ely to serve as District Attorney for the Western District of Massachusetts in 1915; he was elected in his own right to this position the next year, serving until 1920.\n\nEly was active in the state Democratic Party, and was in 1922 put forward as a candidate for Governor of Massachusetts; he placed a distant third in the primary, which was won by John \"Honey Fitz\" Fitzgerald. In 1924 he was delegate to the national Democratic convention, where he supported the Progressive Al Smith. In 1926 he was tapped by the party leadership as a candidate for Lieutenant Governor, but lost the primary in an unusual quirk. His primary opponent, Harry Dooley, had been asked to withdraw so that the party could present an ethnically diverse and geographically balanced ticket, but his name remained on the ballot, and he ended up winning the nomination because of the support of Irish Americans. Dooley offered to surrender the nomination in favor of Ely, but the latter refused, believing the means to be an embarrassment. Ely again supported Smith at the 1928 Democratic National Convention.\n\nIn 1930, Ely again stood for the Democratic nomination for governor. He was opposed in this by the aging Honey Fitz, who was little more than a proxy candidate for former Boston mayor James Michael Curley. Curley loudly accused the Yankee Protestant Ely of being anti-Irish, which Ely countered by pointing out Curley's own public criticisms of Irish-American politicians in his campaigns. Al Smith campaigned for Ely, who won the nomination by a narrow margin.\n\nEly was opposed in the general election by incumbent Governor Frank G. Allen. The Republicans were harmed politically by the 1929 Stock Market Crash and the start of the Great Depression, and were further divided over the issue of Prohibition. Ely ran on a platform emphasizing debt-financed public works projects.\n\nAfter Ely took office, he began a series of public works projects to relieve unemployment. These were funded by long-term debts and were approved by the Republican-controlled legislature. Unlike other states, Massachusetts refused federal aid during Ely's administration. Highway construction in Massachusetts was accelerated by this work, which was also supported by the imposition of a gasoline tax.\n\nOther policies advocated by Ely included substantial reductions in state salaries during the depression, which was met with overwhelming legislative resistance. In concert with the City of Boston, Ely established a permanent Boston Police Academy to increase the training of public safety officers.\n\nCurley and Ely would again cross swords in the 1932 presidential election, when Curley supported Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Ely supported Smith. Ely and Walsh were successful in getting Curley and other Roosevelt supporters excluded from the state's delegation to the 1932 Democratic National Convention, although Curley attended the convention anyway as a delegate representing Puerto Rico. Ely shifted his support to Roosevelt after the latter won the party's nomination, but was snubbed by Roosevelt on federal appointment matters because of his support for Smith. Ely comfortably won reelection in 1932, defeating Lieutenant Governor William S. Youngman. Since the debt-funded works projects were not having a significant impact economically, Ely abandoned the idea in his second term, returning to \"pay-as-you-go\" financing for such projects.\n\nEly declined to run for reelection in 1934 and returned to his law practice. He remained active in state and national Democratic politics, continuing to oppose Roosevelt's New Deal policies. In 1935, he joined the American Liberty League, and supported Republican Alf Landon in the 1936 presidential election. He ran for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1944, ending the bid after being badly defeated in the Massachusetts primary.\n\nJoseph Ely is well remembered in his hometown, where Westfield State University's Governor Joseph B. Ely Library is named in his honor.\n\n", "id": "7720554", "categories": ["Massachusetts Democrats", "Democratic Party state governors of the United States", "1956 deaths", "Massachusetts lawyers", "People from Westfield, Massachusetts", "Harvard Law School alumni", "Williams College alumni", "Governors of Massachusetts", "1881 births"], "title": "Joseph B. Ely"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720572", "text": "Armed Forces Flag Day\n\nThe Armed Forces Flag Day or the Flag Day of India is a day dedicated to India towards collection of funds from people of India for the welfare of the Indian Armed Forces personnel. It has been observed annually in India on December 7 since 1949. Over the years, it has become a tradition to commemorate this day as an honour to the soldiers, sailors and airmen of India.\n\nImmediately after India achieved independence, a need arose for the government to manage the welfare of its defence personnel. On August 28, 1949, a committee set up under the defence minister decided to observe a Flag Day annually on December 7. The idea behind observing a Flag Day was to distribute small flags to the general population and in return collect donations. Flag Day gains more significance as it considers that it is the responsibility of the civilian population of India to take care of the families and dependents of the armed forces personnel who fight for the country.\n\nJawaharlal Nehru, who was then Prime Minister of India, on December 7, 1954 said:\n\nThe Flag day is mainly observed to serve three basic purposes\n\nThe Armed Forces Flag Day commemoration and the collection of funds through distribution of flags. It is a time for Indians to express its gratitude and appreciation to the current and veteran military personnel of India and to acknowledge those who died in service to the country.\n\nOn the Flag Day all three branches of the Indian armed forces, the Indian Army, the Indian Air Force and the Indian Navy, arrange a variety of shows, carnivals, dramas and other entertainment programmes to showcase to the general public the efforts of their personnel to ensure national security. Throughout the country small flags and car flags in red, deep blue and light blue colours representing the three Services are distributed in return for donations.\n\nThe original Flag Day Fund was set up in 1949, by the Defence Minister's Committee. In 1993, the Defence Ministry of India consolidated related welfare funds into a single Armed Forces Flag Day fund. Those funds include,\n\nThe fund collection is managed throughout the country by the local arms of the Kendriya Sainik Board (KSB), which is part of the Ministry of Defence. The collection is organised both by official and non-official means through voluntary organisations. Though welfare of the ex-servicemen and their dependents is the joint responsibility of the union government, and the governments of States and Union Territories (UTs), majority of the problems have to be resolved only by the States and UTs. Like the Kendriya Sainik Board at the Centre, the Rajya / Zila Sainik Boards are responsible for policy formulation and implementation of resettlement and welfare schemes for ex-servicemen, widows and their dependents residing in their respective States / UTs / Districts. To assist the Central Government in this regard, there are 32 Rajya Sainik Boards and 392 Zila Sainik Boards in the country.\n\nThe Secretary KSB advises the Department of Sainik Welfare in the States / UTs on the policies for resettlement and welfare of ex-servicemen, widows and seeks reports from the Director, Department Sainik Welfare / Secretary RSB and Zila Sainik Welfare Officer / Secretary ZSB, on implementation of policies and success in resettling ex-servicemen, widows, disabled personnel invalidated out from the Service and their dependents. Advice is also rendered on the welfare schemes required for the clientele, which are financed from funds allotted by the Governments of States / UTs and the Amalgamated Special Funds.The Fund is operated by a Managing Committee presided over by the Defence Minister at the Centre and by the executive heads of the governments in the States and Union Territories. When the Armed Forces Flag Day programme was introduced, the fund allocation was managed in such a way that the Central KSB headquarters is given only a very small share of the Flag Day Fund collections made by each state. The allotted funds for the KSB is only half a paisa per individual in the state.\n", "id": "7720572", "categories": ["December observances", "Military of India", "Flag days", "Observances in India"], "title": "Armed Forces Flag Day"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720574", "text": "The LeBrons\n\nThe LeBrons are a mock family of American basketball player LeBron James's that was featured in commercials for Nike's line of James's shoes. The four members of the family each represent an aspect of James's personality that compete for control over him. The commercials consist of two \"seasons\", each being like a miniature episode of a TV show.\n\n\"The LeBrons\" is an animated series from NBA player LeBron James. Based on the series of Nike commercials of the same name, \"The LeBrons\" launched on YouTube in April 2011. The original animated series, produced by Believe Entertainment Group and Spring Hill Productions, with various logo cameos of HP, Intel, Sprite, and Beats by Dr. Dre features a first season of 10 original episodes that are released once a week over the course of 10 weeks. The LeBrons is currently in the process of being pitched to Cartoon Network, in order to become a full-length series. \n\nLeBron James plays all of the characters in \"The LeBrons\".\n\n\n\n\"The LeBrons\" is told through the point of view of KID who is surrounded by the other LeBron characters: \"Wise\", \"Business\", and \"athlete\". A modern day \"Fat Albert\", \"The LeBrons\" is a family entertainment show designed to relay a series of \"positive life messages\" to youth and young adults in every episode, through outrageous storylines and flawed, but relatable characters. The show tackles subjects like teamwork, family, friendship, staying in school, the importance of helping others, being trustworthy, always trying to be your best, staying out of trouble, and more, all done in a fresh and relatable way.\n\nThe show takes place in Akron, Ohio, LeBron's hometown. The animated \"Akron\" in \"The LeBrons\" draws inspiration and a striking resemblance to its real life counterpart. It depicts LeBron's real life stomping grounds including his neighborhood, community pool, rec center, school, and more.\n\n\"The LeBrons\" debuted on YouTube at YouTube.com/TheLeBrons and can also be found through LeBron's Facebook and Twitter channels, and a dedicated section of LeBronJames.com. The series is syndicated through Digital Broadcasting Group (DBG). HP and Intel are the lead technology sponsors.\n\nA portion of the proceeds from the series will be used for the purchase of HP computers powered by Intel CoreTM processors, to be donated to Boys & Girls Clubs of America in support of its education initiatives. \n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7720574", "categories": ["Cultural depictions of basketball players", "American animated web series", "Television commercials", "LeBron James", "Animation based on real people"], "title": "The LeBrons"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720578", "text": "Alvan T. Fuller\n\nAlvan Tufts Fuller (February 27, 1878 – April 30, 1958) was an American businessman, politician, art collector, and philanthropist from Massachusetts. He opened one of the first automobile dealerships in Massachusetts, which in 1920 was recognized as \"the world's most successful auto dealership\", and made him one of the state's wealthiest men. Politically a Progressive Republican, he was elected a member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, was a delegate to the Republican National Convention in 1916, and served as a United States Representative from 1917 to 1921.\n\nFrom 1925 to 1929 Fuller was Governor of Massachusetts, continuing the fiscally conservative and socially moderate policies of his predecessors. In 1927 he was enveloped in the international controversy surrounding the trial and execution of Sacco and Vanzetti, Italian immigrant anarchists convicted of robbery and murder. Fuller's handling of the affair, in which pressure was applied by both domestic and international sources seeking clemency for the two, effectively ended his political career.\n\nFuller was an avid collector of art, some of which has since been donated to museums in eastern New England, including the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. He founded the Fuller Foundation, a charity that supports a variety of causes in eastern Massachusetts and the seacoast region of New Hampshire. Fuller Gardens, founded by him in North Hampton, New Hampshire, are now open to the public.\n\nAlvan Tufts Fuller was born in the Charlestown neighborhood of Boston on February 27, 1878, to working class parents, Alvan and Flora Tufts Fuller. His family moved to Malden, Massachusetts when he was still a child. He first worked in a rubber factory, repairing bicycles on the side. To promote his bicycle business he raced, winning local events. He also engaged in a practice, shared by other bicycle shops in the area, of holding an open house on the Washington's Birthday holiday.\n\nEnamored by the new automobile, Fuller sold his racing trophies to finance a trip to Europe in 1899, where he learned more about the automobile industry. He acquired two cars (French De Dion-Bouton \"voiturette\"s), and had them shipped to Boston; they were the first motor vehicles brought in through that port. In 1903 he was awarded the Boston franchise for selling Packards, and later also acquired the local Cadillac franchise.\nFuller was enormously successful in the automobile business, extending his sales reach as far west as Worcester and south to Providence, Rhode Island. He opened his first dealership on Commonwealth Avenue in the Allston neighborhood of Boston, then a largely undeveloped area known by sheer coincidence as Packard's corner, after the owner of a nearby livery yard. He was, however, soon followed by other auto dealers, creating the Boston area's first auto row. Fuller was a significant factor in the success of Packard sales on the east coast, and was in 1920 dubbed the world's most successful car dealer. In 1927 he began construction on a new building at 808 Commonwealth Avenue. Designed by the noted industrial architect Albert Kahn, it became the flagship showroom for his Cadillac dealership. It is now owned by Boston University, and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nAs a car dealer, Fuller continued the practice of holding Washington's Birthday open houses, but the scale of events he staged was significantly more elaborate, and he is generally credited with popularizing the idea of the President's Day car sale that is now common in the United States.\n\nFuller became interested in politics around 1912, supporting Theodore Roosevelt in his Bull Moose candidacy for the presidency. He refused the Progressive Party nomination for Governor of Massachusetts in 1912, but won election to the Massachusetts House of Representatives in 1914 under its banner. Joining the Republican Party in 1916, he served as a delegate to its convention in 1916. The same year, he ran for the United States House of Representatives as an independent, winning a 16-vote victory over longtime incumbent Republican Ernest W. Roberts. He served two terms, in the Sixty-fifth and Sixty-sixth Congresses, from March 4, 1917, to January 5, 1921, winning election to the second term by a wider margin as a Republican.\n\nFuller was an outspoken proponent of reform within Congress, and as a matter of principle never cashed paychecks he received for his public service, or used the Congressional franking privilege. He criticized the inefficient means by which legislation made its way through Congress, calling it \"the most expensive barnacle that ever attached itself to the ship of state.\" Criticisms such as these prompted President Woodrow Wilson to introduce a new and more centralized budgeting system in 1919. Reforms Fuller proposed included a number of steps designed to increase transparency and reduce opportunities for political influence within the operations of Congress.\nIn 1920, Fuller ran for Lieutenant Governor of Massachusetts, and won two terms, serving as the 48th lieutenant governor from 1921 to 1925 alongside Governor Channing Cox. His principal opposition in both elections was in the Republican primary, where he was pitted against the Speaker of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, Joseph E. Warner. The Democrats were then relatively disorganized and lacking effective leadership, and were unable to counter the basic Republican message of \"economy and sound administration\" that had characterized recent elections.\n\nFuller was elected 50th Governor in 1924 after Cox decided not run for reelection. The 1924 election was against the colorful Mayor of Boston James Michael Curley. Fuller's campaign rhetoric focused on the excesses of what it called \"Curleyism\", which it likened to a \"graft-ridden spending spree\". Curley attempted to tie Fuller to the Ku Klux Klan, but his charges were exposed as meritlessFuller's wife was Roman Catholic (a group the Klan disliked), and Fuller was known to have contributed to Catholic charities. Fuller was reelected by a substantial majority in 1926 over William A. Gaston, in a campaign dominated by Democratic calls for reform of Prohibition. As he had while in Congress, Fuller refused compensation for his services.\n\nFuller was viewed as a law and order pro-death penalty governor and a fiscal conservative. He was, like his predecessors, a social moderate, enacting modest reforms in areas such as automobile insurance.\nFuller's tenure as governor coincided with the Sacco and Vanzetti case, a series of trials for murder and robbery followed by legal appeals that culminated in domestic and international calls for the governor to either grant a new trial, or to commute the death sentences, of the two Italian immigrants active in anarchist political circles. He appointed a three-member panel, consisting of Harvard President Abbott Lawrence Lowell, MIT President Dr. Samuel W. Stratton, and retired Probate Judge Robert Grant to conduct a complete review of the case and determine if the trials were fair. The committee reported that no new trial was called for and based on that assessment Governor Fuller refused to delay their executions or grant clemency. On May 10, 1927, while Fuller was considering requests for clemency, a package bomb addressed to him was intercepted in the Boston post office. A few months after the executions, he endorsed proposals to reform the state's judicial procedures to require a more thorough review of capital cases. The episode led to Fuller being characterized in the international press as provincial, and the controversy surrounding the cases and criticism of his handling of it (which was widely seen to exacerbate rather than diminish political tensions) effectively ended his hopes for higher office. \"New York Times\" reporter Louis Stark repeated a widely held belief that Fuller's decision to deny clemency was motivated by a desire to succeed Calvin Coolidge in the presidency, but there is no substantive evidence to corroborate this idea, beyond the coincident timing of Coolidge's announced decision not run in 1928 and Fuller's decision. In 1930, Fuller stated in an interview that he was more concerned about the political activities of the two men and their supporters, which he saw as a threat to order and security of the United States. When Fuller was offered a print edition of \"The Letters of Sacco and Vanzetti\" in 1929 at the inauguration of his successor, he deliberately threw it to the ground.\n\nIn 1928, Fuller was an early supporter of Herbert Hoover's presidential campaign, after considering his own run for the presidency, and was briefly considered as a candidate for Vice President. He was dropped from consideration because, as Republican Senator William Borah put it, \"The Republican Party cannot afford to spend the summer debating the Sacco-Vanzetti case.\" His handling of the case was seen to reduce support for the ticket among immigrant communities. He was dropped from consideration by the Hoover administration for consideration as United States Ambassador to France after the French government indicated it could not guarantee his safety due to the Sacco-Vanzetti affair. (When the controversy was at its height in 1927, the Fullers had traveled to France, and the French government had secretly provided heightened security around their movements.) Fuller considered running for Senate in 1930 and Governor in 1934, but dropped out of the primaries in those races. In 1933, he was appointed by the Public Works Administration (PWA) to a board overseeing the distribution of PWA funds in Massachusetts. He was again considered as a Vice Presidential nominee in 1932, but ran well back in the convention balloting.\n\nAfter leaving office, Fuller returned to his automotive business, serving as chairman of the board of Cadillac-Oldsmobile Co. of Boston. In 1949 he dropped the Packard dealership, and focused exclusively on the Cadillac and Oldsmobile brands.\n\nFuller was a philanthropist and art collector, serving as a trustee of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston (MFA). Painters represented in his collection included Renoir, Rembrandt, Turner, Gainsborough, Sargent, Monet, Van Dyck, Romney, Boccaccino, Boucher and Reynolds. Paintings that he and his successors donated to the National Gallery of Art in Washington and the MFA include: Monet's \"The Water Lily Pond,\" Renoir's \"Boating Couple,\" and van Dyck's \"Princess Mary, Daughter of Charles I.\" His philanthropy was wide-ranging and included art, hospitals, education, religion, municipalities and social services. He established The Fuller Foundation, Inc., during his lifetime; still in operation, it supports many charitable agencies in the Greater Boston area and the Seacoast Region of New Hampshire.\n\nFuller died in Boston on April 30, 1958. He was interred in East Cemetery (also known as the Little River Cemetery) in North Hampton, New Hampshire, where he had a summer home. The summer property included a large garden that the Fullers developed, with landscape design guidance by Arthur Shurtleff and the Olmsted Brothers. It is now open to the public seasonally.\n\nFuller married Viola Theresa Davenport of Somerville in Paris in 1910, with whom he had four children, two boys and two girls. She had a brief career as an opera singer, performing in Paris and then debuting in Boston in 1910. She died in 1959.\n\nPeter D. Fuller, his youngest son, was an avid supporter of civil rights and continued the family auto business. He was the owner of Dancer's Image, the horse that won the 1968 Kentucky Derby. Fuller was stripped of his winning title because a banned drug was found in the horse's urine. He and his supporters claimed he had been singled out because he had recently donated a winner's purse of $77,415 from a different race to Coretta Scott King, the widow of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who had been assassinated a month earlier, and who the year before had disrupted derby events by demonstrating against housing discrimination in nearby Louisville. He lost a four-year legal battle to retain the Kentucky Derby title and prize money.\n\nFuller's automobile dealership, established with license #1, continues to be operated within the family. Now dealing in rentals and used vehicles, it has locations in Watertown and Waltham, Massachusetts.\n\n\n", "id": "7720578", "categories": ["1958 deaths", "Politicians from Boston", "Members of the Massachusetts House of Representatives", "Philanthropists from Massachusetts", "Lieutenant Governors of Massachusetts", "Members of the United States House of Representatives from Massachusetts", "American company founders", "Corporate executives in the automobile industry", "Massachusetts Republicans", "Businesspeople from Boston", "Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives", "Republican Party state governors of the United States", "American art collectors", "Governors of Massachusetts", "1878 births"], "title": "Alvan T. Fuller"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720584", "text": "Union Project\n\nUnion Project, located in Pittsburgh, PA and founded in 2001 by a group of young Pittsburghers, is a non-profit organization located at the literal intersection of two of Pittsburgh's most diverse and historic neighborhoods—East Liberty and Highland Park. It houses offices for several nonprofit organizations, offers a variety of community programming, maintains a full ceramics studio, and rents space for community use.\n\nUnion Project takes its name from one of its previous occupants—the Union Baptist Church. The founding members bought an ailing church on the corner of Stanton Avenue and N. Negley Avenue. Built in 1903, the church had been home to a number of congregations until it was abandoned in the mid-1990s. Purchased for $125,000, the building was restored through a $1.6 million capital campaign. Funds were raised through a process of grassroots organizing, public grants, and private contributions.\n\nThe project is run by a small full-time staff, a board of directors, part-time interns, and a dedicated team of community volunteers.\n\nCurrently, the building houses a cafe and nine permanent office tenants, including; the Girls Coalition of Southwestern PA, Open Door church, America Votes, Jackson-Clark Partners, and PULSE. It makes additional rental space available: a conference room, a semi-circular atrium space, and a Great Hall. \nIn order to restore the building's original stained glass windows, Union Project offered a series of workshops for artists of all skill levels to learn the art of stained glass restoration. During the project, the building's historic windows were cleaned, repaired, and re-installed by more than 200 community members. The restoration took ten years to complete.\n\nUnion Project has developed a clay cooperative for artists in the Pittsburgh area. Clay artists pay a monthly fee for access to clay, glazes, wheels, kilns and other tools and materials. Additionally, Union Project offers ceramics classes for artists of various skill levels throughout the year. Ceramics@UP was one of many Pittsburgh locations to present and host events for the National Council on Education in the Ceramic Arts (NCECA) conference in March 2008.\n\n", "id": "7720584", "categories": [], "title": "Union Project"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720594", "text": "Víctor Julio Suárez Rojas\n\nVíctor Julio Suárez Rojas (2 January 1953 – 22 September 2010) — a.k.a. Jorge Briceño Suárez a.k.a. Mono Jojoy — was a high-ranking member of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), a Colombian guerrilla organization. He was second-in-command to Alfonso Cano and top military commander. Suárez Rojas commanded the Eastern Bloc of the FARC and was a member of the FARC Secretariat. His \"nom de guerre\" was Jorge Briceño Suárez; to the Colombian army he was known as Mono Jojoy (mono is the word for monkey in Spanish, but it also means cute/pretty in Spain, and blond in Colombia).\n\nSuárez Rojas was born in Cabrera, Cundinamarca and joined the FARC in 1975 at age 22. He grew up without a father and received little education.\n\nSuárez Rojas was under indictment in the United States for killing three US citizens, terrorism and narcotics trafficking activities. The Colombian government also indicted Suárez Rojas on charges of rebellion, narcotrafficking, terrorism, kidnapping and extortion, among other crimes.\n\nSuárez Rojas was implicated in a bombing in Bogotá that killed 36 and injured more than 100 civilians in February 2003. He was indicted by the United States in 2002 for killing three US citizens in 1999. He also may have been involved in the kidnapping and murder of three US missionaries in 1993. He was wanted on drug-trafficking charges in both Colombia and the United States. More recently, he was charged in early 2006 for forcibly recruiting children for the FARC. Suárez Rojas was one of the most important Colombian guerrilla leaders. The U.S. Attorney General requested his extradition if he were to have been captured.\n\nSuárez Rojas was considered to be one of the most radical rebels in the FARC; he issued the order to demand the resignation of the town mayors and hundreds of civil employees of Colombian municipalities, and to kidnap or execute them if they did not resign from their posts. He has been accused by Colombian authorities of participating in the kidnapping of former presidential candidate Ingrid Betancourt and the massacre of a member from the Turbay Cote family close to the former demilitarized area of El Caguan.\n\nHe was also accused of participating in the kidnapping of three US contractors. A proof of life video of the three released by the FARC in 2003 showed Mono Jojoy telling them that they were \"prisoners . . . in the power of the FARC,\" and that the governments of Colombia and the United States have \"abandoned and forgotten you.\" The three were rescued in July 2008.\n\nOn 11 May 2008 a Colombian military commander told the press several rogue bodyguards of \"Mono Jojoy\" had been plotting to murder the FARC commander to collect the US$5 million reward on his head. Three bodyguards were executed after \"Mono Jojoy\" found out about the plot, and another three of them are known to have escaped. One turned himself in to the authorities.\n\nOn 24 May 2008 the Colombian President Álvaro Uribe announced national forces were pursuing him: \"The man called 'Mono Jojoy'--we are after him. He is the picture of health: fat, puffy, wrinkle-free, smartly dressed. But the heroic soldiers and policemen of this country are on to him. Generals, soldiers, policemen of the fatherland: let's get this man on a diet. Make him feed on roots so that this country may rid itself of this 40 year-old headache.\"\n\nColombian authorities announced the death of Mono Jojoy on 23 September 2010. According to President Juan Manuel Santos the FARC commander was killed in an operation that began in the early hours of 21 September in the department of Meta, 190 km south of the capital Bogotá.\n\nAccording to the GPS device of one of the soldiers who took part in the military operation, the location of the FARC camp where Mono Jojoy was killed is N02° 48' 14.0\", W073° 58'19.4\", as can be seen in the minute 02:54 of the Colombian army video released by Noticias Uno. The United States government refused to pay the reward to the informant.\n\nOn 21 September 2010, experts in Colombia tried to crack the codes to 15 computers and almost 100 USB memory sticks belonging to Colombia's largest rebel group. One of the laptops is believed to have belonged to its military leader, Mono Jojoy, who was killed in the attack. Its screen was reportedly shattered by bullets, but its hard drive was still intact. The computers were examined by 40 experts from the police criminal investigation unit in the capital, Bogota. About 10,000 extra police officers were deployed to Colombia's main cities to prevent retaliatory attacks by the Farc. In the FARC's first public statement since the death of military leader \"Mono Jojoy,\" the guerrilla group says it is \"calling for a chance at peace, not for surrender,\" reports EFE.\n\nThe urban approval rating of Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos increased to 88% following the military operation that killed 'Mono Jojoy\". Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos compared the death of FARC leader \"Mono Jojoy\" to killing Osama bin Laden, and announced that the army found fourteen computers and 60 USB flash drives in the camp where the guerrilla was killed. On 24 September 2010, US President Obama praised the killing.\n\nIn November 2010, \"El Tiempo\" reporter Jineth Bedoya Lima released her book \"Vida y muerte del Mono Jojoy\" (English: \"Life and Death of Mono Jojoy\"). The book alleged that Mono Jojoy had ordered the assassination -never carried out- of Caracol Radio journalist Néstor Morales. In response, the FARC-aligned news agency Noticias Nueva Colombia posted a headline on its website accusing her of being a military intelligence agent, causing the Colombian-based Foundation for Press Freedom and Canadian Journalists for Free Expression to issue statements of concern for her safety.\n\n", "id": "7720594", "categories": ["2010 deaths", "People from Cundinamarca Department", "Deaths by airstrike", "Colombian communists", "1953 births", "Anti-revisionists", "Members of FARC"], "title": "Víctor Julio Suárez Rojas"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720600", "text": "Anglo-Saxon military organization\n\nAnglo-Saxon military organization is difficult to analyze because there are many conflicting records and opinions as to the precise occurrences and procedures. Anglo-Saxon England was known for its tumultuous nature and the constant presence of outside threats and dangers made it necessary for a solid military to be constantly in place. However, in spite of this, by the 10th century, the Saxon kingdom of England was, perhaps, the best ordered state in Europe with a highly efficient administration that had a solid currency and could raise taxes to support a military establishment. Even though there is some controversy as to the accurate forms of military organization, some aspects can be deduced from the records that have been preserved.\n\nThe period can, however, be split into two: before settlement, AD 400 to AD 600; and the settlement period, when the Saxons had established organized kingdoms, AD 600 to AD 1066.\n\nThe Saxons were organized into warbands led by a chief. The warriors comprising the warband were professional soldiers, though perhaps without the discipline of the Romans. There were three classes of warrior:\n\nThe \"Gedriht\" were the personal followers of the chief and were sworn to die with him. There would have been few of them in each warband. They would have been well armed and the majority would have worn a helmet and chainmail armour. The main weapon was the \"Gar\", a 2.5 m long spear with an ash shaft (Old English, gar = spear). Many would have carried long slashing swords.\n\nThe second group were the \"Geoguth\", or young warriors. They would have formed the bulk of the warband and would have carried a shield, spear, and \"Seax\" (a single edged dagger or short sword). Few would have had helmets or defensive armour.\nThe \"Duguth\", or old warriors, appear later in this period. They would have carried the same equipment as the \"geoguth\" and served mainly to provide a stabilising element in battle.\n\nIn addition, there would have been skirmishers armed with either a bow or sling.\n\nThis appears to have changed during this period. At the beginning, the shield was small, more like a buckler, and suggests that the men fought in open order. Later, the shield was enlarged (up to 1 m across) and the warband fought in close order, which required a reasonable level of training and discipline. This style of fighting had a long history; it was known as a shield wall or phalanx formation.\n\nThe use of the horse in battle is very unclear and probably only the \"gedriht\" would have had them. However, horses at this period were small and would have had to be battle trained. On balance, the sources indicate that the Saxons fielded a balanced and effective infantry army. It seems likely that horses would have been used either for scouting or transport.\n\nIt is not clear how large armies were; the Saxons themselves described anything more than 30 warriors as an army. This was about same number as a ship's crew. The general view is that an army would have been made up of a number of warbands under a senior chief, or \"Althing\", and would have been between 200 and 600 strong.\n\nThe organisation underwent considerable changes, becoming essentially more feudal. The \"Gedriht\" became a more organised household guard , which provided a core of military specialists (the huscarls). Individual Earls would have had their own household troops. There is also a new class of lord, the Thegn, which was roughly the equivalent of the later Norman Baron: Thegns held land from the king and were responsible for raising the Fyrd in their area and leading them into battle. The richer Thegns would also have had their own household troops.\n\nHowever, the major innovation is in the organization of the Fyrd. This, in the post Alfred period, is called up in groups either to man the Burhs (each burh had a manpower level calculated according to the length of wall) or to serve in the field army. By this process, a Saxon army could remain in the field all year as there are always enough men at home producing food and goods. The army was thus significantly larger than in the early period. In addition, by the 11th century, the increasing wealth of England, its increased centralisation, and its growing class of freemen meant that helmets, weapons, and armour could be made in far greater numbers. This meant that, by the 10th century, laws appear to have required a freeman who had the financial means to own a spear, a shield, an axe or sword and a helmet. The laws of the day required Fyrd members to be men of a particular class, freemen, who could afford decent equipment and training.\n\nWeapons and equipment remained broadly the same, although the majority of a warband now had a helmet. The Dane Axe, which required a great deal of training to use effectively, became increasingly popular with the huscarls.\n\nAnglo-Saxon battle tactics have also spawned much debate. Some historians believe that horses were used, though most argue that the battles took place on foot. Infantry battles are reported in many texts from the period. Anglo-Saxon military organization is difficult to analyze.\n\nThe combat strength of the Anglo-Saxon army is another issue that cannot be agreed upon by scholars. Some historians argue that the army was weak and only used infantry as a means of defense and attack, while cavalry were only used for scouting, whereas others believe that the army was more powerful, employing infantry and cavalry. The former argument suggests that the infantry was of a high standard but did not have the capacity to press home an advantage, due to the lack of cavalry. It was also suggested by historians until the 1980s that the Anglo-Saxons did not carry high quality weapons.\n\nSince the 1970s, however, archaeologists and historians have created a more varied view of Anglo-Saxon armies. The early Saxon armies are now thought to have been very formidable indeed, specializing in high-intensity close combat. The large shield was an offensive weapon as well as defensive. In the later period, the Saxons adopted the Danish battle axe, which had a 1.3 m shaft and could decapitate a horse or break up an opposing shield wall.\n\nThere was no cavalry in western Europe capable of consistently breaking a well-ordered shieldwall, aside perhaps from the Byzantine Cataphracts. This was due to the relatively small size of horses, and the fact that, even with the advent of the couched lance in the 12th century, well disciplined spearmen still presented a major problem for cavalry. This was demonstrated at Hastings when the Normans, who probably were the best cavalry of the period, tried all day to break the Anglo-Saxon line.\n\nTo judge the effectiveness of any military formation one first needs to determine what was its function. The early Saxon armies were aggressive small raiding units that could be quickly combined in a larger unit to take land and goods. The later army's function was defensive and was the military expression of an organised state. It not only depended on raising manpower through the fyrd, but on a network of burghs that provided supply bases and mustering points. It was this system that allowed Alfred and his successors to conquer England and for Harold to move his army rapidly against the Danes and defeat them at Stamford Bridge then move elements 250 miles south to Hastings.\n\nThere are some battles in which scholars generally agree on which tactics and methods were used. The Battle of Hastings, in 1066, the soldiers were organized with the best in the front line and the less adequate fighters in the following lines. They formed a tightly packed shield wall, with spears projecting from the front rank over the shieldwall. Protecting the areas behind and to the side were a small number of archers, javelin throwers and slingers. The Bayeux Tapestry also shows armoured Saxon warriors using the long handled Danish axe. Either they stood in front of the shield wall or the wall opened to let them through. Though this formation has been criticised, it was highly effective; it provided reasonable cover from missile weapons and was capable of fending off most cavalry. It also needs to be remembered that all the Saxons needed to do in order to achieve victory was to hold their position until sunset, and the Normans would be forced to break off the days fighting. The Normans, deprived of supplies and reinforcements, be penned into a small area and with no way of feeding themselves or their horses, would have been forced to retreat.\n\nIt was, in fact, rather effective at repelling the Norman Cavalry and it was only the death of Harold and his brothers, probably towards the end of the battle, that caused the Saxon command system to ultimately fail and the battle to be lost. This strategy was also used in the battle of Sherston in 1016, only with a slight difference - instead of simply holding position, the army advanced on the enemy while maintaining their solid formation (A refinement of this tactic was used in the crusades: as the army neared the enemy line, gaps would open in the 'shieldwall' through which the cavalry would charge). Military tactics did develop gradually throughout the Anglo-Saxon period. Though there is still much debate as to how efficient the soldiers and the fighting was, it is clear that, as the ages progressed, so too did the power and capability of the army.\n\n\n", "id": "7720600", "categories": ["Conflict in Anglo-Saxon England"], "title": "Anglo-Saxon military organization"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720617", "text": "Samuel W. McCall\n\nSamuel Walker McCall (February 28, 1851 – November 4, 1923) was a Republican lawyer, politician, and writer from Massachusetts. He was for twenty years (1893–1913) a member of the United States House of Representatives, and the 47th Governor of Massachusetts, serving three one-year terms (1916–19). He was a moderately progressive Republican who sought to counteract the influence of money in politics.\n\nBorn in Pennsylvania and educated at Dartmouth, he settled in Massachusetts, where he entered local politics on a progressive reform agenda. Elected to Congress, he continued his reform activities, and opposed annexation of The Philippines. He did not join the Progressive Party, but was insufficiently conservative for state party leaders, who denied him election to the United States Senate on two occasions. As governor, he directed the state's actions during World War I, and orchestrated early aid to Halifax, Nova Scotia following a devastating munitions ship explosion there in 1917.\n\nSamuel Walker McCall was born in East Providence Township, Pennsylvania on February 28, 1851, to Henry and Mary Ann (Elliott) McCall, the sixth of eleven children. At a young age, the family moved to an undeveloped frontier area of northern Illinois, where McCall spent much of his childhood. McCall's father speculated in real estate and owned a stove factory, which was closed by financial reverses of the Panic of 1857. His education began at the Mount Carroll Seminary (now Shimer College) in Mount Carroll from 1864 to 1866, when that school closed to male students.\n\nMcCall's parents then sent him east to the New Hampton Academy in New Hampton, New Hampshire, on the recommendation of a neighbor. McCall graduated from New Hampton Academy in 1870 and subsequently attended Dartmouth College, where he was a member of the Kappa Kappa Kappa fraternity and graduated Phi Beta Kappa near the top of his class. While at Dartmouth, he published a newspaper (self-financed by himself and the other editors) called the \"Anvil\", and was tapped by the Dartmouth president to stand in for a sick teacher of Latin and Greek at an academy in Meriden, New Hampshire. The \"Anvil\" was one of the first student-run newspapers to comment on national and state politics.\n\nAfter graduating, McCall moved to Worcester, Massachusetts, where he studied law and gained admission to the Massachusetts Bar. He then opened a law practice in Boston with a Dartmouth classmate, which he maintained for most of his life. In 1888, he and two partners purchased the \"Boston Daily Advertiser\", for which he served as editor-in-chief for two years. In 1881 he married Ella Esther Thompson, whom he met while attending New Hampton Academy; they settled in Winchester, Massachusetts, where they raised five children.\n\nMcCall was elected a member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives in 1887, serving three terms in 1888, 1889, and 1892. Politically a reform-minded Mugwump (he had supported Democrat Grover Cleveland in 1884), he introduced legislation to govern so-called \"corrupt practices\" of elected officials, intended to reduce the influence of money and favors in politics. The legislation failed to pass the legislature until 1892. He also supported legislation abolishing imprisonment for debt. He was a delegate to the Republican National Convention in 1888, and served as the state's ballot commissioner in 1890 and 1891.\n\nIn 1892, McCall was elected to the United States House of Representatives, a seat he would occupy for twenty years, generally winning reelection by large margins. As he had in the state legislature, he introduced a corrupt practices act into Congress. In foreign policy, he was anti-imperialist, arguing for the independence of The Philippines after the Spanish–American War, and opposed the Dingley Tariff, arguing its rates were too high. He was one of the few representatives opposed to the Hepburn Act, which enabled the Interstate Commerce Commission to regulate railroad rates. He had a reputation as a bit of a maverick, because he often strayed from the Republican party line, but he maintained a generally conservative voting record, and introduced little new legislation.\n\nIn 1912, McCall refused to stand for reelection, and was instead considered by the state legislature for election to the United States Senate in early 1913, to succeed the outgoing Senator Winthrop Murray Crane. His opponent, John W. Weeks, was more conservative Republican who had the support of most of the Crane-dominated state party apparatus. The contest was bitterly divisive, an echo of the Progressive Party split that damaged the party at the national level, and was narrowly won by Weeks, even though McCall led in the party caucus balloting for the first three ballots.\n\nMcCall was chosen by the party in 1914 as its nominee for Governor of Massachusetts, as a unifying force between the more progressive and conservative wings of the party. Running against the popular Democratic incumbent David I. Walsh on a progressive platform, McCall was narrowly defeated, with the Republican votes split due to the presence of a Progressive Party candidate on the ballot. McCall was nominated again in 1915, with the Republicans deliberately courting the Progressive vote by calling for a state constitutional convention. In a rematch with Walsh, he was this time victorious. He served three consecutive terms, with future President Calvin Coolidge as his lieutenant governor. In each election, Coolidge won more votes than McCall did, and the \"Boston Transcript\" credited at least one of his victories to Coolidge's drawing power.\n\nThe Massachusetts Constitutional Convention of 1917–1918 was the major political event of McCall's tenure. The convention proposed a number of reforms, most of which were adopted by the voters. State commissions and agencies were streamlined, and initiative and referendum measures were added to the state constitution. Elections for statewide offices were changed from annual to biennial, beginning in 1920. Legislative reforms proposed by McCall to the state legislature were only partially adopted; proposals reforming state insurance and the public pension program were left in the legislature, and his proposal to abolish capital punishment also failed.\n\nAnticipating American entry into World War I in early 1917, McCall formed the Massachusetts Public Safety Commission, an emergency response and relief organization that was the first of its type in the nation. Coordinating a wide array of public and charitable organizations and major businesses, the commission played a significant role in providing relief and other services until it was disbanded in 1918. One of its most important actions was coordinating the state's response to the Halifax Explosion of December 6, 1917. With only fragmentary reports received early after a blast devastated the Nova Scotia city of Halifax, McCall called the committee into action, and offered unlimited assistance to the stricken city. The state organized a major relief train (even before the full extent of the disaster was known) that was among the first to reach Halifax, and the committee's representatives assisted in organizing relief activities on the ground. Temporary housing built in Halifax was named in McCall's honor, and the state's relief efforts continue to be recognized today by Nova Scotia's annual gift of a Christmas tree to the city of Boston.\n\nIn 1918, McCall decided not to run for reelection, and again stood for the United States Senate. In a party nomination rematch with Weeks, he abandoned the campaign after it became clear the conservative Crane wing of the party was standing with Weeks. The seat ended up being won by ex-Governor Walsh in a Democratic upset. In the general election, McCall refused to campaign on Weeks' behalf, a move that contributed to the end of his political career. In 1920, he was nominated by President Woodrow Wilson for a seat on the United States Tariff Commission; the nomination was rejected by the Republican-controlled Senate.\n\nMcCall was engaged in literary pursuits for many years, writing in newspapers and magazines of the day. Following his exit from politics he focused on these activities, writing for the \"Atlantic Monthly\" magazine, and working on political biographies. His writings include biographies of his mentor Thomas Brackett Reed, Pennsylvania politician Thaddeus Stevens, and he was working in a biography of Daniel Webster when he died.\n\nMcCall died in Winchester on November 4, 1923. His interment was in Wildwood Cemetery. His grandson, Tom McCall, was a two-term Republican Governor of Oregon, serving from 1967 to 1975.\n\n\n", "id": "7720617", "categories": ["Dartmouth College alumni", "1851 births", "Members of the United States House of Representatives from Massachusetts", "Shimer College alumni", "Boston Daily Advertiser people", "1923 deaths", "People from Worcester, Massachusetts", "Massachusetts Republicans", "1916 United States presidential candidates", "20th-century American politicians", "People from Winchester, Massachusetts", "Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives", "Republican Party state governors of the United States", "Governors of Massachusetts"], "title": "Samuel W. McCall"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720619", "text": "Eséka\n\nEséka is a small town in central Cameroon.\n\nThe city of Eséka lies on the main Camrail railway, where the line enters more rugged terrain from the coastal plains.\n\nOn 22 October 2016, a passenger train derailed close to the town. The train, traveling from the capital Yaoundé to the economic hub Douala was crammed with people due to road traffic disruption between the two cities and came off the tracks just before reaching Eséka. At least 60 people were killed with many hundreds injured.\n\n\n", "id": "7720619", "categories": ["Populated places in Cameroon"], "title": "Eséka"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720686", "text": "Hurricane Bonnie (1992)\n\nHurricane Bonnie was a long-lived storm in the 1992 Atlantic hurricane season. It was the third tropical storm (including the April subtropical storm) and second hurricane of the 1992 season. Bonnie formed at high latitudes in the central Atlantic on September 17. Devoid of any real steering currents for much of its lifespan, it was nearly stationary for over a week in the central Atlantic Ocean. On September 27, it began to slowly track east and northeast towards the Azores. Just before becoming extratropical, it affected the Azores on September 30, although no damage was reported.\n\nThe origins of the system was a cold front that moved off the U.S. East Coast on September 11. The front moved gradually off the coast and into the subtropical Atlantic Ocean before becoming stationary just east of Bermuda on September 15. Over the next two days, the cloud cover slowly detached itself from the front and form into a tropical low in its own right. On the afternoon of September 17, the system was organized enough to be declared Tropical Depression Four.\n\nThe depression organized steadily that evening and into the morning of September 18. Later that day, it was upgraded to Tropical Storm Bonnie and it began to move slowly to the northeast. Like most storms that develop in higher latitudes, Bonnie was embedded in a larger-scale cyclonic circulation at first, which minimized shear (allowing it to develop) and provided weak steering currents. The low shear allowed Bonnie to rapidly develop and a small but well-defined eye formed late that morning. The storm was upgraded to a hurricane later that day while meandering in the open ocean. The intensification rate slowed down after becoming a hurricane. In addition, Bonnie began to slowly move more to the northeast on September 19 as steering currents slowly developed. Bonnie strengthened into a Category 2 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson hurricane scale that morning as well, peaking at 105 mph (165 km/h) with a 970 mbar central pressure. The general track and intensity maintained itself throughout the day and into September 20, when the eye became less distinct and Bonnie weakened slightly, although remaining a Category 2 hurricane. Early on September 21, the eye became better defined once again and Bonnie restrengthened slightly while continuing its slow northeast motion. That afternoon, the storm gradually strengthened some more and reached its peak intensity of 110 mph (175 km/h) and a central pressure of 965 mbar, just under Category 3 intensity. Bonnie maintained its strength through the evening and into the early morning of September 22, when it began to weaken very gradually and level off. Bonnie also began to turn more eastward at that point before it became held up by a blocking mid-latitude ridge of high pressure, which stalled the motion.\n\nBonnie remained virtually stationary until the morning of September 23 when it drifted very slowly to the west-southwest in response to the ridge. It also began to gradually weaken as the low-level center became exposed and the storm became poorly organized. Convection also diminished, and on the afternoon of September 24, Bonnie was downgraded to a tropical storm as it drifted over cooler waters. Bonnie continued to lose most of its deep convection during the day on September 25 as it began to make a turn back around to the south. That evening, Bonnie was downgraded to a tropical depression.\nThe weakening trend ended early on September 26 and Bonnie regained tropical storm status that afternoon as deep convection re-established itself. Bonnie continued its change in direction, turning to the southeast at this point as it slowly redeveloped despite being in a high-shear environment. It had also briefly showed signs of becoming extratropical on September 27 as it made the turn to the northeast as a weak tropical storm, and was operationally declared extratropical at that point until the afternoon of September 28. During that period, Bonnie actually strengthened back into a high-end tropical storm. Bonnie roughly followed Hurricane Charley's path towards the Azores thereafter. The storm became entrenched in an environment with greater wind shear, although it only weakened slightly on September 29 as it accelerated towards the northeast. The storm crossed over the Azores on September 30 as a strong tropical storm with 65 mph (100 km/h) winds. After that, Bonnie quickly lost its tropical characteristics and was declared extratropical late that afternoon, just east of the Azores. The extratropical low drifted back to the southwest in a clockwise loop, actually approaching the Azores once again while dissipating. It dissipated on October 2.\n\nWhen Bonnie passed over the Azores only four days after Charley, it resulted in tropical storm-force winds across much of the island chain. Lajes Air Base reported sustained winds of 40 mph (64 km/h) with gusts to 59 mph (94 km/h). In addition, one man was killed by a rock fall on the island of São Miguel. No damage was reported in the Azores.\n\n\n", "id": "7720686", "categories": ["Category 2 Atlantic hurricanes", "Hurricanes in the Azores"], "title": "Hurricane Bonnie (1992)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720731", "text": "Roger L. Easton\n\nRoger Lee Easton, Sr. (April 30, 1921 – May 8, 2014) was an American scientist/physicist who was the principal inventor and designer of the Global Positioning System, along with Ivan A. Getting and Bradford Parkinson. He was born in Craftsbury, Vermont.\n\nIn 1955, Easton co-wrote the Naval Research Laboratory's Project Vanguard proposal for a U.S. satellite program in competition with two other proposals, including a proposal from the U.S. Army prepared by Wernher Von Braun. The Eisenhower Administration selected Project Vanguard. In 1957, Easton invented the Minitrack tracking system to determine the Vanguard satellite's orbit. When Sputnik I was launched, Easton extended the system to actively follow unknown orbiting satellites.\n\nIn 1959, he designed the Naval Space Surveillance (NAVSPASUR) system. The Naval Space Surveillance System became the first system to detect and track all types of Earth-orbiting objects. It goes through the 33rd parallel, which is effectively coast to coast of the US.\n\nLater in his career at NRL, Easton conceived, patented, and led the development of essential enabling technologies for the United States Global Positioning System (GPS). During the 1960s and early 1970s he developed a time-based navigational system with passive ranging, circular orbits, and space-borne high precision clocks placed in satellites. The idea was tested with four experimental satellites: TIMATION I and II (in 1967 and 1969) and Navigation Technology Satellites (NTS) 1 and 2 (in 1974 and 1977). NTS-2 was the first satellite to transmit GPS signals.\n\nEaston was born in Craftsbury, Vermont, to Dr. Frank B. Easton, a physician, and Della Donnocker, a school teacher. He graduated from Middlebury College in 1943. He also attended the University of Michigan for 1 semester before joining the Naval Research Laboratory in 1943. At the Naval Research Laboratory he worked in the Radio Division on radar beacons and blind-landing systems. Easton also worked in the laboratory's Rocket-Sonde Branch which was dealing with space related research.\n\nEaston retired in 1980. In 1986, Easton ran for Governor and served 3 terms on the Board of the New Hampshire Electric Cooperative.\n\nEaston died on May 8, 2014, at the age of 93.\n\nGeorge W. Bush awarded Easton the National Medal of Technology for his \"extensive pioneering achievements in spacecraft tracking, navigation and timing technology that led to the development of the NAVSTAR-Global Positioning System (GPS)\" in 2006. The National Medal of Technology is the highest honor awarded for technology.\nOn March 31, 2010, Easton was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame and presented the NIHF Medal of Honor for the development of TIMed navigATION (TIMATION - U.S. Patent 3,789,409) that provided both accurate position and precise time to terrestrial based observers, an important foundation for contemporary Global Positioning Systems.\n\nDuring his career at the Naval Research Laboratory, Easton was awarded:\n", "id": "7720731", "categories": ["Global Positioning System", "American inventors", "National Medal of Technology recipients", "Middlebury College alumni", "1921 births", "2014 deaths", "People from Craftsbury, Vermont"], "title": "Roger L. Easton"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720739", "text": "4CC\n\n4CC is a three-letter acronym that may refer to:\n", "id": "7720739", "categories": [], "title": "4CC"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720744", "text": "CommonLoops\n\nCommonLoops (the Common Lisp Object-Oriented Programming System; an acronym reminiscent of the earlier Lisp OO system \"Loops\" for the Interlisp-D system) is an early programming language which extended Common Lisp to include Object-oriented programming functionality and is a dynamic object system which differs from the OOP facilities found in static languages such as C++ or Java. Like New Flavors, CommonLoops supported multiple inheritance, generic functions and method combination. CommonLoops also supported multi-methods and made use of metaobjects. CommonLoops and New Flavors were the primary ancestors of CLOS. \nCommonLoops was supported by a portable implementation known as Portable CommonLoops (PCL) which ran on all Common Lisp implementations of the day.\n\n\n", "id": "7720744", "categories": ["Common Lisp software", "Lisp (programming language)"], "title": "CommonLoops"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720762", "text": "Chris Higgins\n\nChris Higgins may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7720762", "categories": [], "title": "Chris Higgins"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720770", "text": "Brachypelma klaasi\n\nBrachypelma klaasi (also known as the Mexican pink tarantula) is a tarantula endemic to Mexico and it is the rarest of the genus \"Brachypelma\".\n\nThe setae of this species have a uniformly rusty appearance. The coloration is very similar to that of the six species of \"Brachypelma\" that are endemic to the west coast. \"B. boehmei\" is similar, having black tarsi, orange-yellow metatarsi, tibias and patellas, black femora and coxae and orange-yellow hairs on the opistosoma. It differs only in the carapace, which is yellow-orange in \"B. boehmei\" and black in \"B. klaasi\". Another very similar species is \"B. baumgarteni\". Adults of \"B. klaasi\" have a body length of about 6–7.5 cm with a 16 cm legspan.\n\nThe species is named in honor of Peter Klaas, the collector of the species.\n\n\"B. klaasi\" is found at elevations of 300–1400 m above sea level on the western slopes of the Sierra Madre Occidental and some areas on the western limits of the Transverse Volcanic Belt in Jalisco and Nayarit states. Its known range extends from Tepic, Nayarit, in the north to Chamela, Jalisco, in the south, with the largest known population at the biological reserve at Chamela.\n\nThere is a high rate of collection for the pet trade of \"B. klaasi\" and other members of the genus \"Brachypelma\". As such, all members of \"Brachypelma\" have been placed on Appendix II of CITES. \"B. klaasi\" is considered to be the rarest and most threatened of the Mexican tarantula species. Their slow growth, combined with habitat degradation and illegal wild capture for the pet trade means that it is estimated that less than 0.1% of individual tarantulas survive from egg to adulthood in the wild.\n\n\n", "id": "7720770", "categories": ["Theraphosidae", "Spiders described in 1994", "Endemic fauna of Mexico", "Spiders of Mexico"], "title": "Brachypelma klaasi"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720774", "text": "WIN.INI\n\nWIN.INI is a basic INI file that was used in versions of the Microsoft Windows operating environment up to Windows 3.11 to store basic settings at boot time. By default, all font, communications drivers, wallpaper, screen saver, and language settings were stored in WIN.INI by Windows 3.x. Many of these settings were honored in Windows 9x, although the files had begun to be phased out in favor of the Windows registry. Windows XP still acknowledged some entries in the WIN.INI file to provide backwards compatibility with older 16-bit applications. However, when a fresh install of XP is performed, the WIN.INI file created is initially blank, and in Windows Vista and Windows 7 the WIN.INI file was removed entirely.\n\nPrior to Windows 3.0, it was not uncommon for applications to store their configuration settings inside WIN.INI. With the release of Windows 3.0 in 1990, Microsoft introduced the concept of \"private\" INI files, and some new application programming interface calls so that applications could store their settings in their own files.\nToday Microsoft recommends using other methods for storing settings.\n\nMicrosoft bundles two specialized editors for core configuration files (such as WIN.INI, SYSTEM.INI, CONFIG.SYS, and AUTOEXEC.BAT) with its operating systems. Sysedit is an MDI text editor that opens all of those files simultaneously, available in all versions of Windows since Windows 3.x. MSConfig, included with Windows 98 and above except Windows 2000, is a simpler application that allows a user to enable and disable drivers and applications from being loaded at startup by the aforementioned files and the Run, RunEx, and RunOnce registry keys.\nWIN.INI and SYSTEM.INI are included in modern versions of Windows for 16-bit application support. 16-bit applications may error if these 2 files do not exist in C:\\Windows.\n\n", "id": "7720774", "categories": ["Configuration files", "Windows components"], "title": "WIN.INI"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720795", "text": "Korattur\n\nKorattur is situated in the western part of Chennai. It is a part of the Ambattur Zone of Chennai Corporation and located along the Chennai-Bangalore/Mumbai railroad about 12 km from the Chennai Central. Being situated in close proximity to Anna Nagar and similarly developed with TNHB Layouts, Korattur is often referred to as an integral part of Anna Nagar\n\nThe place has developed from being a calm village in the early 20th century to an urban township of today due to the expansion of the Chennai city and the industrial development of west Chennai. The neighbourhood is served by Korattur railway station of the Chennai Suburban Railway. The main road (East & Central Avenue) have been laid as 4 lane road with a median, such that each side has a 2 lanes with parking facility.\n\nKorattur is famous for its thick foliage. The main road leading from Padi is populated with thick and old trees on both sides, so much so that the canopy renders the sky only partially visible. There are many other streets with such high tree-density, most notably the 18th Street and 12th/15th Street junction. In between 2nd / 14th / 15th and 18th street is a sufficiently spacious park where children play merrily after school and it also has a walking / jogging track. There are also many beautiful location beyond Korattur railway station (i.e. Chennai 76 ). Korattur is one of the place in Chennai to have detailed and planned TNHB colony and surrounded with thick greenery and trees around all places. In the recent past the old flats are replaced by news ones constructed by GR Natarajan, Pushkar, Landmark, Marvel, GreenPeace, India Builders & Firm Foundations coming with mega projects and flat prices have reached Rs 10,000/sqft.\n\nSome major Hindu temples are in Korattur, the important one being the Pillaiyar Kovil (near the Korattur Police / ESI Hospital - opposite to TNSC Bank), another Temple behind the Community Hall. One near the Korattur Main Bus Stand. A Mosque is located @ 27th Street (i.e. behind Hotel New Saravanaas) and Churches like Infant Jesus (Catholic), Grace Prayer House (near Community Hall) and C.S.I Holy Trinity Church, (next to Bakthavatchalam College / Metro Water Tank) ... near the Korattur water canal,\n\nKorattur has some CBSE and matriculation schools. They are \nBhaktavatsalam Vidyashram, Dr.Nalli Kuppuswami Vivekananda Vidyalaya Junior College, 'Little Holy Angels Mat. Hr. Sec. School', and 'Ebenezer Matriculation Higher Secondary School. 'Good Shepherd Matriculation Higher Secondary School'\n\nThough located around 10–13 km away from many central places in the city, Korattur is well-linked by public transport. Local trains (EMU) starting from Central / Velacherry Railway station to Avadi/Tiruvallur/ Arakkonam stop at Korattur. City bus services are 7B from Parry's Corner, 23C from Thiruvanmiyur, 65T from Poonamalle, 70L from Tambaram to Ambattur OT via Korattur Central Avenue,22B from Anna Square, 47D(cut service) from Thyagaraya Nagar 41D from Mandaveli to Avadi via Korattur Central Avenue, 70L(cut service) from Guindy Industrial Estate and S42 from Maduravoyal. New mini bus service S75 from TVS Lucus to Ambattur and S58 from TVS Lucus to Thirumulaivayoil both via Korattur Central Avenue. S57 Mini bus from Perambur to korattur north via mohan garden ,DK brothers and Peravallur, this is the first bus service for korattur north .. but we miss 16-A route bus from Korattur to Quide-de-Milleth College, which has been withdrawn now. This route bus use to ply an Express service @ 9:10 AM in the morning which used to be a taken by many Govt officers for their offices in the city like Egmore and Mount Road. High-speed trains coming to Chennai from Bangalore and other places pass by Korattur. One could alight at Perambur station and take a local to reach Korattur.\n\nBeing situated in the Western Chennai, provides good connectivity to - North, Central and South Chennai.\n\nThere are few Hindu Temples, the oldest being Jambookeshwar Temple old Earikarai Sri Siyathamman Temple. A mosque and two churches: Holy Trinity Church and Infant Jesus. The other temples are Lakshminarayanan Perumal for Vishnu (adjacent to Jambookeshwarar temple), Nagavalli Amman temple (38th main street), Vijayashakthi Vinayakar Temple in north Srinivasapuram, Pillayar Koil (next to police station), Anjaneyar temple (near the bus stand),Sri Throwpathy Amman Kovil, Sri Muthumari Amman Temple where one can also find the shrine of Shri Sridi Sai Baba within the temple premises and Yoga Anjaneyar temple with Munishwaran shrine in the same premises along the banks of Korattur Eri. The population is predominantly Hindu, with many Brahmins, but quite a number of Muslims and Christians also live here peacefully and successfully.\n\nThe Korattur Lake present north of the railway line, is an important sightseeing place in this town. Apart from being a water reservoir that is useful to people here, it also acts as a buffer during rains. This lake is also home to a wide variety of animals. Over 50 species of birds can be seen in the wild in this lake, particularly in winter months. This lake is a major attraction to wildlife and bird enthusiasts in north Chennai. Despite major habitat loss in the present decade, this lake still houses a good animal and plant life. \n\nTransport in Chennai\n", "id": "7720795", "categories": ["Neighbourhoods in Chennai"], "title": "Korattur"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720796", "text": "SYSTEM.INI\n\nSYSTEM.INI was an initialization (INI file) used in early versions of Microsoft Windows (from 1.01 up to Me) to load device drivers and the default Windows shell (Program Manager or Windows Explorer), among other system settings. Many of these settings were honored in Windows 9x (95, 98 and Me), although the INI files had begun to be phased out in favor of the Windows Registry. Windows NT 4.0, 2000, XP and Server 2003 still acknowledge some SYSTEM.INI entries in order to provide backwards compatibility with older 16-bit applications. Windows Vista and beyond also have codice_1 as well. However, when a fresh install of XP/Server 2003 is performed, the SYSTEM.INI file created contains by default only these lines:\n\nMicrosoft bundles two specialized text/ASCII editors for core configuration files (such as PROTOCOL.INI, WIN.INI, SYSTEM.INI, CONFIG.SYS, and AUTOEXEC.BAT) with its operating systems. Sysedit is an MDI text editor that opens all these files simultaneously, available in all versions of Windows beginning with Windows 3.0, except Me. MSConfig is a front end interface application that allows the user to enable and disable drivers, Windows shell and applications separately from being loaded at startup by the aforementioned files and from the Run, RunEx, and RunOnce Windows Registry keys.\n\nSYSTEM.INI in Windows 3.x (3.0, 3.10 and Windows for Workgroups 3.11) and Windows 9x (95, 98 and Me):\n", "id": "7720796", "categories": ["Configuration files", "Windows components"], "title": "SYSTEM.INI"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720823", "text": "Moosup Valley State Park Trail\n\nThe Moosup Valley State Park Trail is a rail trail located on the railbed of a former New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad line in the New England towns of Plainfield and Sterling in Windham County, Connecticut. The line ran from 1898 until 1968. The rail line was abandoned in the late 1960s, and was designated by the state as a multi-use trail in 1987. The trail is owned and operated by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection. \n\nIt runs for approximately from Main Street in the center of the village of Moosup to the Rhode Island state line in the town of Sterling, where the trail continues into Rhode Island as the Coventry Greenway. The Moosup Valley Trail, together with the Quinebaug River Trail and the Air Line Trail, is \"a critical link\" in the Hartford to Providence section of the planned East Coast Greenway.\n\nThe trail is a work in progress. It is open to the public for its entire length, and all major gaps and obstructions have been removed or filled in, but many sections are rough and unimproved. \n\nThe following is a section-by-section description of current trail conditions.\n\nTrailhead at Route 14 in Moosup to Barber Hill Road, Plainfield: This section of trail is completed. It has trailhead parking and starts by crossing the Moosup River on a refurbished railroad bridge. The trail is paved with a smooth, wide asphalt surface for this section. Most of this part was completed as part of the project to replace the Barber Hill Road bridge over the Moosup River.\n\nBarber Hill Road, Plainfield to bridge over Providence Road, Sterling: This section of trail is mostly undeveloped. It was cleared and graded several years ago, and has a dirt, rocky surface. It is suitable for horses and mountain bikes, but not for street bikes. The bridge over the Moosup River in Sterling was repaired and given a new deck for trail use. \n\nBridge over Providence Road, Sterling to Spring Lake Road, Sterling: A brand new bridge was recently completed to carry the trail over Providence Road. This bridge replaces the original rail bridge which was removed when the rail line was first abandoned. As part of the new bridge project, a 3/4 mile section of trail from the new bridge east to Spring Lake Road was completed and paved with a wide, smooth asphalt surface. This is the first section in Sterling to be officially completed and the new bridge removes the last physical obstacle along the trail's route. \n\nSpring Lake Road, Sterling to RI State Line: This section is open but is undeveloped. It has a rough dirt surface and is best traveled on foot or mountain bike. \n\nThe trail continues into Rhode Island as the Trestle Trail, a multi-use trail that is operated by the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management.\n\nThe whole trail is in Windham County, Connecticut.\n \n", "id": "7720823", "categories": ["Sterling, Connecticut", "Protected areas of Windham County, Connecticut", "State parks of Connecticut", "East Coast Greenway", "Plainfield, Connecticut", "Rail trails in Connecticut", "Protected areas established in 1987", "Parks in Windham County, Connecticut"], "title": "Moosup Valley State Park Trail"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720839", "text": "Sandor Katz\n\nSandor Ellix Katz (born May 20, 1962) is an American food writer and DIY food activist.\n\nA self-described \"fermentation fetishist\", Katz has taught hundreds of food workshops around the United States, and his book \"Wild Fermentation\" (2003) has been called a classic, \"the bible for people embarking on DIY projects like sourdough or sauerkraut\", and \"especially notorious for getting people excited about fermenting food\". He was named one of \"Chow\" magazine's top trendsetters and rabble-rousers in 2009.\n\nBorn to a Jewish family with origins in Belarus, Katz grew up in New York City. He is openly gay, an AIDS survivor, and began his fermentation experimentation while living in a rural, off-the-grid Radical Faerie community in Tennessee.\n\nKatz was the subject of the 2009 punk rock song \"Human(e) Meat (The Flensing of Sandor Katz)\", a satirical vegan response to Katz's 2006 chapter on \"Vegetarian Ethics and Humane Meat\" in \"The Revolution Will Not Be Microwaved\".\n\n\n", "id": "7720839", "categories": ["LGBT writers from the United States", "Jewish American writers", "American people of Belarusian-Jewish descent", "20th-century American male writers", "1962 births", "Living people", "21st-century American non-fiction writers", "20th-century American non-fiction writers", "American food writers", "Gay writers", "James Beard Foundation Award winners", "Radical Faeries", "LGBT Jews"], "title": "Sandor Katz"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720852", "text": "Herbert Achternbusch\n\nHerbert Achternbusch (born 23 November 1938 in Munich) is a German writer, painter and filmmaker. His anarchist surrealistic films are not known to a wide audience in Germany, although one of them, \"Das Gespenst (The Ghost)\", caused a scandal in 1983 because of its\nalleged blasphemous content. Werner Herzog, a director of the New German Cinema, based his film \"Heart of Glass\" on a story by Achternbusch.\n\nIn 1981, he directed the film \"Der Neger Erwin\", which was entered into the 31st Berlin International Film Festival. The following year, he directed \"The Ghost\", which was entered into the 33rd Berlin International Film Festival. In 1988, his film \"Wohin?\" was entered into the 38th Berlin International Film Festival. In 1995, his film \"Hades\" was entered into the 45th Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nHerbert Achternbusch was awarded the German international literary Petrarca-Preis in 1977, but he declined. In 2010, he was awarded the Kassel Literary Prize. He won the Mülheimer Dramatikerpreis in 1986 and 1994.\n\n\n", "id": "7720852", "categories": ["German poets", "1938 births", "German theatre directors", "German male poets", "Academy of Fine Arts, Nuremberg alumni", "German male painters", "German film directors", "20th-century German painters", "Living people", "People from Munich", "20th-century German male writers", "20th-century German novelists", "German male film actors", "21st-century German novelists", "Writers from Bavaria", "21st-century German painters", "German male novelists"], "title": "Herbert Achternbusch"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720853", "text": "Tiffen (company)\n\nThe Tiffen Company is a company in Hauppauge, New York, U.S. which manufactures filters for photography, and other professional film and photography-related products. Founded in 1945, by Sol Tiffen who brought his brothers Leo and Nat into the business, the company has won several Academy Awards for technical achievements in filtration. Nat Tiffen, as well as Ira Tiffen, each won technical achievement awards.\n\nThe company's main competitors are Harrison & Harrison Optical Engineers, Inc., Heliopan, Hoya, Schneider, Formatt, and Lee. Tiffen also owns the Steadicam, Domke, Lowel Light, Davis & Sanford, Listec, Stroboframe, Zing Designs brands and product lines.\n\nNat Tiffen of Tiffen Manufacturing Corporation received an Academy Award for technical achievements in filtration. The commendation reads:\n\nThe 1999 award was presented on March 4, 2000.\n\n", "id": "7720853", "categories": ["Companies based in Suffolk County, New York", "Optical filters", "Academy Award for Technical Achievement winners", "Islip (town), New York", "1938 establishments in New York (state)"], "title": "Tiffen (company)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720857", "text": "American Montessori Society\n\nThe American Montessori Society (AMS) is a New York City-based nonprofit, member-supported organization which promotes the use of the Montessori teaching approach in private and public schools. The American Montessori Society advocates for the Montessori method in public and private schools throughout the United States, and publishes its own standards and criteria for its accredited member schools. AMS supports research and public policy that advocate for Montessori education.\n\nThe American Montessori Society (AMS) is a nonprofit, member-supported, professional organization based in New York City, with an aim to provide the leadership and inspiration to make Montessori a known branch of education.\n\nThe organization was founded at the Whitby School in Greenwich, Connecticut in 1958. The organization originated by a group of Catholic parents who idealized Montessori teaching methods and schools. Due to the increase in interest with Montessori education, teaching the curriculum to new teaching staff was essential. Dr. Nancy McCormick Rambusch, who had studied Montessori philosophy and practice in London, and was the first headmistress of the Whitby School, was appointed the American representative of the Association Montessori Internationale by Mario Montessori, son of Maria Montessori. The Association Montessori Internationale is headquartered in Amsterdam, Netherlands. Six months later, Rambusch was appointed the first president of the American Montessori Society.\n\nIn 2012, AMS launched an initiative called the National Center for Montessori in the Public Sector, which assists with the growth and sustainability of Montessori programs in public, charter, and magnet schools across the country. The director is Keith Whitescarver, EdD.\n\nIn 2007 AMS celebrated the 100th anniversary of the opening of the first Montessori school, the Casa dei Bambini, in Rome, Italy, in 1907. More than 5,000 educators attended. Keynote speakers included poet Maya Angelou. The honorary chairperson was U.S. Senator Christopher J. Dodd (D-CT).\n\nThe AMS Annual Conference in San Francisco, California, drew media interest because of the Demonstration Montessori Classroom that allowed visitors to observe elementary students at work in an actual classroom constructed in the conference hotel.\n\nThe American Montessori Society Archives are housed at the Thomas J. Dodd Research Center at the University of Connecticut in Storrs. The multi-media collection reflects the professional and administrative activities of AMS going back to its earliest days, and also provides historical information about the Montessori system of education.\n\nTeacher education programs (TEPs) affiliated with the American Montessori Society provide courses for people who want to be Montessori teachers.\n\nIn 1967, the US Patent Trademark Trial and Appeal Board ruled that \"the term 'Montessori' has a generic and/or descriptive significance.\" Therefore, in the United States and around the world, the term can be used freely without giving any guarantee of how closely, if at all, a program applies Montessori's work. The ruling has led to \"tremendous variation in schools claiming to use Maria Montessori’s methods.\"\n\n\n", "id": "7720857", "categories": ["Private and independent school organizations in the United States", "Montessori education"], "title": "American Montessori Society"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720877", "text": "Chonchon\n\nThe Chonchon ( from ) is a mythical bird from Mapuche religion also present in Chilean and southern Argentine folk myth.\n\nThe Chonchon is the magic transformation of the powerful kalkus (Mapuche sorcerers), that knows the secret of the Kalkus, to become this feared creature.\n\nThe kalku or the sorcerer would carry out the transformation into a Chonchon by an act of will and being anointed by a magic cream in the throat that eases the removal of the head from the rest of the body, with the removed head then becoming the creature.\n\nThe Chonchon has the shape of a human head with feathers and talons; its ears, which are extremely large, serve as wings for its flight on moonless nights. Chonchons are supposed to be endowed with all the magic powers of and can only be seen by other kalkus, or by wizards that want this power.\n\nThey are known for their cry of \"\"tue tue tue\"\" during flight. The Chonchon is considered a mythical bird that announces \"\"bad luck\"\", and the form in that the kalkus use to carry out easily their wicked activities. The Kalku transformed in chonchon, also can drink the blood of sleeping people.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7720877", "categories": ["Legendary birds", "Latin American folklore", "Mythological hematophages", "Shapeshifting", "Mapuche legendary creatures"], "title": "Chonchon"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720880", "text": "Virginia's 4th congressional district\n\nVirginia's fourth congressional district is a United States congressional district in the state of Virginia. Taking in most of the area between Richmond and Hampton Roads, it covers all or part of the counties of Charles City, Chesterfield, Dinwiddie, Greensville, Henrico, Prince George, Southampton, Surry, and Sussex, and all or part of the independent cities of Chesapeake, Colonial Heights, Emporia, Hopewell, Petersburg, Richmond and Suffolk. The current representative is Donald McEachin (D).\n\nThe Virginia Legislature's 2012 redistricting of the adjacent 3rd district was found unconstitutional and replaced with a court-ordered redistricting on January 16, 2016 for the 2016 elections.\n\n\n", "id": "7720880", "categories": ["Constituencies disestablished in 1933", "Constituencies established in 1789", "Constituencies established in 1935", "Congressional districts of Virginia", "1933 disestablishments in Virginia", "1789 establishments in Virginia"], "title": "Virginia's 4th congressional district"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720884", "text": "Spanish Arch\n\nThe Spanish Arch () and the Caoċ Arch () in Galway city, Ireland, are two remaining arches on the Ceann an Bhalla (\"Front Wall\"). The two arches were part of the extension of the city wall from Martin's Tower to the bank of the River Corrib, as a measure to protect the city's quays, which were in the area once known as the Fish Market (now Spanish Parade). It was constructed during the mayoralty of Wylliam Martin in 1584, being called \"ceann an bhalla\" (\"the head of the wall\").\n\nIn the 18th century the Eyre family of Eyrecourt, County Galway, created an extension of the quays called The Long Walk and created the arches to allow access from the town to the new quays. The designation \"Spanish\" is not historical to this period and was likely known as the Eyre Arch when built. \nIn 1755, the arches were partially destroyed by the tsunami generated by the 1755 Lisbon earthquake.\n\nUntil 2006, part of the Arch housed the Galway City Museum. At that time, the museum was moved to a new, dedicated building located just behind the Arch.\n\n\"The Long Walk\" is a promenade to one side of the Arches.\n\n\n", "id": "7720884", "categories": ["Tourist attractions in Galway (city)", "Gates", "Arches and vaults in Ireland", "Buildings and structures in Galway (city)", "Geography of Galway (city)"], "title": "Spanish Arch"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720887", "text": "Virginia's 5th congressional district\n\nVirginia’s fifth congressional district is a United States congressional district in the commonwealth of Virginia. It is Virginia's largest district with an area of - and is larger in area than six US states.\n\nThe district’s first representative in Congress was James Madison, who defeated James Monroe in the district's first congressional election. Madison and Monroe would go on to serve as the 4th and 5th Presidents of the United States. The current Congressman is Republican Denver Riggleman. \nHistorically, the 5th was one of the first districts of Virginia to turn Republican in Presidential elections – though unlike the 6th where the decisive factor was ticket-splitting by Byrd Organization Democrats, here the decisive factor was the growth of middle-class Republicanism in the Charlottesville metropolitan area. In the decade preceding the Voting Rights Act, these were joined by a significant proportion of Virginia’s limited and almost entirely white electorate who preferred GOP positions on black civil rights. The district was to be one of two in Virginia giving a plurality to segregationist George Wallace in 1968, and has never supported a Democrat for President since Harry S. Truman.\n\nHowever, the district was continually represented in Congress by fairly conservative Democrats until Virgil H. Goode, Jr. switched parties, first to independent and then to Republican. In 2008 progressive Democrat Tom Perriello defeated Goode by running on a progressive platform. Perriello lost to Republican Robert Hurt in 2010.\n\nIt covers all or part of the following political subdivisions:\n\nThe entirety of:\n\nPortions of:\n\n\nVirginia's 5th congressional district election, November 2010\nVirginia's 5th congressional district election, November 2012\n\nVirginia's 5th congressional district election, November 2014\n\nVirginia's 5th Congressional District House Election, November 2016\n\nVirginia's 5th Congressional District House Election, November 2018\n\nTook place on Tuesday, November 6, 2018, with Republican Denver Riggleman winning the election. The incumbent, Tom Garrett, did not run for re-election.\n\n\n", "id": "7720887", "categories": ["Constituencies disestablished in 1933", "Constituencies established in 1789", "Constituencies established in 1935", "Congressional districts of Virginia", "1933 disestablishments in Virginia", "1789 establishments in Virginia"], "title": "Virginia's 5th congressional district"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720898", "text": "Virginia's 6th congressional district\n\nVirginia’s sixth congressional district is a United States congressional district in the Commonwealth of Virginia. It covers much of the west-central portion of the state, including Roanoke, Lynchburg and most of the Shenandoah Valley. The current representative is Ben Cline (R), who has held the seat since the 2019 retirement of incumbent Republican Bob Goodlatte.\n\nThe district was an open seat in 2018. In November 2017, Goodlatte announced that he would retire from Congress at the end of his current term, and would not seek re-election. \n\nHistorically, the 6th district was one of the first areas of Virginia to turn Republican. Many of the old Byrd Democrats in the area began splitting their tickets and voting Republican at the national level as early as the 1930s. It was also one of the first areas of Virginia where Republicans were able to break the long Democratic dominance at the state and local level. The district itself was in Republican hands from 1953 to 1983. Olin won the seat in 1982, and held it for a decade before Goodlatte won it.\n\nSome counties in the district haven't supported a Democrat for president since Franklin D. Roosevelt. For instance, Highland and Shenandoah counties last voted for a Democratic presidential candidate in 1932, and Augusta and Roanoke counties have not supported a Democrat since 1944. The district as a whole hasn’t supported a Democrat for president since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964.\n\nIt covers all or part of the following political subdivisions:\n\nThe entirety of:\nPortions of:\n\n", "id": "7720898", "categories": ["Constituencies disestablished in 1933", "Constituencies established in 1789", "Constituencies established in 1935", "Congressional districts of Virginia", "1933 disestablishments in Virginia", "1789 establishments in Virginia"], "title": "Virginia's 6th congressional district"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720908", "text": "La finta semplice\n\nLa finta semplice (\"The Fake Innocent\"), K. 51 (46a) is an opera buffa in three acts for seven voices and orchestra, composed in 1768 by then 12-year-old Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Young Mozart and his father Leopold were spending the year in Vienna, where Leopold was trying to establish his son as an opera composer. He was acting on a suggested request from the Emperor Joseph II that the young boy should write an opera.\n\nLeopold chose an Italian libretto by the Vienna court poet Marco Coltellini, which was based on an early work by Carlo Goldoni. During rehearsals, the opera was the victim of intrigues from competing composers claiming that the work was not from the 12-year-old boy, but from his father. Threatened with a sabotaged first night by the impresario Giuseppe Affligio, Leopold prudently decided to withdraw. The opera was never staged in Vienna. It was probably performed the following year in Salzburg at the request of the Prince-Archbishop.\n\nMozart produced a full score of three acts, 26 numbers, in a manuscript of 558 pages. It includes an overture/Sinfonia, one coro, one duet, three ensembles (at the end of each act), and 21 arias.\n\nThe opera was recorded in its entirety by Leopold Hager for Orfeo in January 1983 with Helen Donath and Teresa Berganza, a performance lasting two hours 45 minutes. Another recording was made in November 1989, with Barbara Hendricks and Ann Murray, and conducted by Peter Schreier. This version was selected by Philips to be part of \"The Complete Mozart Edition\" of all the works of Mozart, published in 1991.\n\nHowever, since its premiere in 1769, the opera was not staged until modern times. It was performed at the 2006 Salzburg Festival, as part of the production of all of 22 Mozart's operas. The performances were published in the collection of DVDs known as \"M-22\" by Deutsche Grammophon.\n\nThe opera was something of a temporary career setback for Mozart, amid a childhood otherwise characterized by universal success and stardom. The instigation of the work was a suggestion made by Emperor Joseph II to Mozart's father Leopold during a visit made to the Imperial capital of Vienna by the Mozart family (10 January 1768 to the end of December 1768). Leopold wanted to promote the exceptional talent of young Mozart with the hope of establishing him as an opera composer.\n\nThe Emperor suggested to Leopold that Wolfgang write an opera for performance in Vienna to show his remarkable skills to the Viennese public as he had already done all over Europe.\n\nLeopold needed a good libretto, and he had the choice between seria and buffa. He noted that the seria singers available in Milan were mediocre, while the buffa singers were excellent. \"There are no singers here for serious opera. Even Gluck's tragic opera \"Alceste\" was performed entirely by \"opera buffa\" singers. He too is now writing an \"opera buffa\" \" (30 January 1768). Leopold thus chose a buffa libretto, and for so doing, he simply went to the established librettist in Vienna, who happened to be the Florentine Marco Coltellini, an Italian \"poet\" who was to replace Metastasio as \"poeta cesareo\" at the Imperial court of the Habsburgs in 1769.\n\nTogether they selected a libretto by Goldoni, the master of the commedia dell'arte genre. Coltellini modified the libretto somewhat, especially act 3. He abandoned some arias, replaced a few with his own, and in some cases, kept the original Goldoni aria in the scene while adding a new one of his own, with the result that a few scenes ended up with two arias instead of one, as was the norm, usually coming at the end of the scene. In Coltellini's version, four scenes start with an opening aria and end with another: act 1, scene 3, nos. 4 and 5 arias; act 2, scene 6, nos. 16 and 17 arias; act 3, scene 1, nos. 22 and 23 arias; act 3, scene 2, nos. 24 and 25 arias.\n\nSome writers claim that, when the opera was finished, \"the performers apparently disliked it\" The \"failure\" of \"La Finta Semplice\" in Vienna, which went through rehearsals, but didn't reach full performance, has been the object of similar hazy and cursory descriptions.\n\nHermann Abert (1871–1927) describes in more precise detail the facts of this \"fiasco\" in his monumental book \"W. A. Mozart\" (1919, transl. 2007). This was to be the 5th edition of the famous book of the same title by Otto Jahn (1856–59), the first scholarly biography of Mozart, done with rigorous scientific conscientiousness (\"Deutsche Gründlichkeit\") by a professional archeologist who had become a scholarly expert of ancient Greek vase paintings. Cliff Eisen, who edited the translation of Abert's book in 2007 for Yale University Press with the best scholarship then available, does not dispute Abert's historical facts and reasonings, presented in chapter 5, \"First operas in Vienna\", p. 82–95, which provided the following quotes.\n\nThe first act completed, \"Mozart sent it off to the singers, who, according to Leopold, expressed their total satisfaction.\" Then, Coltellini started making alterations, on the request of Mozart and the singers, and took so long that Easter of 1768, the projected date of the first performance, went by. \"Mozart refused to be troubled by this, but continued to work on the opera, eagerly and enthusiastically, writing new arias whenever he was asked to do so\", (Abert, p. 86), soon completing a score in three acts, with 26 numbers, covering 558 manuscript pages. Young Mozart thus ended up composing a substantial major opera, lasting (in Leopold Hager's 1983 recording) 2 hours and 45 minutes.\n\nThe controversy arose, above all, from the jealousy of other composers, who started circulating the story that the opera had not been written by a 12-year old, but by his father, Leopold. Christoph Willibald Gluck was in town supervising the production of his new opera \"Alceste\", and Leopold wondered whether he was also part of the intrigue against young Mozart. Leopold resorted to a test of improvisation to prove young Mozart's authentic composition skills to elite aristocrats. \"He would throw open a random volume from Metastasio's works and invite Wolfgang to provide a musical setting with orchestral accompaniment, of whichever aria he hit upon\" (Abert, p. 87). \n\nThe impresario, Giuseppe Affligio, an independent contractor, alone in charge of the theater and all opera performances, and bearing all the costs and the risks, made the final decisions about all details of retaining the singers, organizing the rehearsals, and staging the final production. He became influenced by the systematic gossip and started worrying about a negative outcome. He began to have doubts, fearing that the appeal of an opera by a 12-year old prodigy would fade under the suspicions of fraudulent authorship. He found successive reasons to delay the performance.\n\nThings dragged on, until the artists started worrying in turn about the damage to their own reputations if the opera was a flop. The same singers who had \"declared themselves well satisfied with music that they described as grateful, now began to fear for the success of the production when they saw how much effort was being expended on preventing it from going ahead. Leopold complained at the singers' duplicity,\" as the Viennese aristocrats \"knew nothing of the inner wickedness of these beasts\" (14 September 1768, Abert, p. 87).\n\nAbert gave an extensive musical analysis of the opera, and underlined the high quality of many arias written by Mozart, such as: \nand the 3 ensembles of the finales of each act, where young Mozart displays his remarkable facility in synchronizing the parts of 7 singers:\nIt is not credible that the singers could have shown displeasure at such charming arias. Here Leopold's account must be trusted against other commenters of the time.\n\nIn fact, the turmoil put everybody's reputation at stake, including that of the Salzburg Prince-Archbishop, whose employees the Mozarts were, representing him in Vienna. Leopold wrote that the artists employed and recommended by the archbishop should not be treated as \"liars, charlatans, and impostors who venture forth, with his gracious permission, to throw dust in people's eyes like common conjurors\" (30 July 1768, Abert, p. 88). Affligio got so worked up that he even threatened, if the work got to first night, to make sure the opening would be a disaster. \"He would ensure that it was a fiasco and that it was booed off the stage.\" Leopold could not take the risk for himself and to thus endanger the unblemished reputation of his son, and \"was left with no alternative but to abandon the production.\" Leopold withdrew from the rehearsals.\n\nIn fact, \"Affligio was an adventurer and gambler who had obtained his officer's commission by fraud...His complete lack of any understanding of art is clear...He was finally sent to the galleys for forgery.\" (Abert, p. 88).\n\nThe whole affair had \"dragged on for 9 months\" and in order \"to salvage his reputation\", Leopold wrote \"an indignant petition to the emperor on 21 September 1768, complaining of a conspiracy on the part of the theatre director Giuseppe Affligio, who apparently claimed that Wolfgang's music was ghost-written by his father, and proving Mozart's output by including a list of his compositions to that time.\" (See also Eisen/Sadie, \"Grove Online\", also Cliff Eisen, \"Cambridge Mozart Encyclopedia\").\n\nLeopold was also requesting the payment of the 100 ducats promised on delivery of the score in the initial Affligio contract plus the reimbursement of his expenses. The petition failed. The letter is reprinted in English translation in Deutsch (1965, pp. 80–83). The Emperor ordered an inquiry, but its result was that the opera was not to be produced.\n\nThe Mozarts left Vienna at the end of December 1768, with \"La finta semplice\" still unperformed. It was probably produced in their home town of Salzburg, in 1769, at the request of Leopold's employer, Prince-Archbishop Schrattenbach.\n\nThis affair's unfortunate outcome may also have further soured and alienated Joseph II's mother, the Empress Maria Theresa. The Empress had 16 children, including 5 sons (\"Archdukes\"), and she was an important relative of a fair number of monarchs and aristocrats who might have been in a position to give Wolfgang a permanent job.\n\nShe was an austere personage who was already offended by the lack of dignity in the Mozarts' European journeys. During the Mozarts' Vienna visit, she may have developed an even more hostile view of the Mozart family.\n\nThe failure in 1768 cost young Mozart his chance of establishing his reputation as a first-class opera composer in Vienna, which would have been a jumping board for obtaining a permanent position in another European court.\n\nLater, Mozart was, at first, very successful in Milan with his well-received performances of \"Mitridate\" (Carnival of December 1770 to January 1771), and especially \"Ascanio in Alba\", a pastoral serenata performed for the wedding of Archduke Ferdinand (15 October 1771). By contrast, the main opera for the wedding, \"Ruggiero\", by Hasse on a Metastasio libretto, performed the day after the wedding (16 October), generated no enthusiasm. Mozart's serenata, following the main opera was, by contrast, a great success (17 October). Leopold exulted in his letter (19 October): \"In a word, it grieves me, but Wolfgang's serenata has so overshadowed Hasse's opera that I cannot describe it.\" The universal sentiment was confirmed by the Italian and German press. \n\nMaria Theresa had herself commissioned the libretto and composition of the main opera \"Ruggiero\", while Mozart's serenata had been commissioned by the Milan authorities. Hasse had been Maria Theresa's music teacher 38 years earlier, and had remained her favorite musician and personal friend. But he now was 71, suffering from gout, and could barely travel to Milan. The Empress was aware that Hasse was too old and feeble for the event, and that he was past his prime, while young Mozart was only 15, brimming with energy. Still, she was embittered by Hasse's lack of success, and consoled him, back in Vienna, with rich presents. This may have contributed to her growing resentment against the Mozarts.\n\nAfter the success of Mozart's \"Lucio Silla\" (Carnival of December 1772 to January 1773), Leopold, overstayed his visit in Milan by a few months, still hoping for a position for young Mozart, until he was finally advised that no position would be offered. Leopold had to leave empty-handed.\n\nThe Empress Maria-Theresa's behind-the-scenes objection to Mozart was revealed much later, when her 17-year-old son Ferdinand, Imperial Governor of Milan, delighted by Mozart's \"Mitridate\", and his wedding serenata, \"Ascanio in Alba\", had expressed his desire to employ young Mozart in his court. His mother answered, in a famous letter of 12 December 1771, advising her son against it: \nYou ask me to take the young Salzburger into your service. I do not know why, not believing that you have need of a composer or of useless people. If however it would give you pleasure, I have no wish to hinder you. What I say is intended only to prevent your burdening yourself with useless people and giving titles to people of that sort. If they are in your service it degrades that service when these people go about the world like beggars. Besides, he has a large family.\n\nElsewhere in Italy, Mozart received a very cool reception from another Ferdinand, the King of Naples; Melograni conjectures that he had received the Empress's bad recommendation from his wife, her daughter Maria Carolina.\n\nHistorian Derek Beales called Maria-Theresa \"monstrously unfair to Mozart.\" Instead of a court-appointed opera composer, with a stable income and an easy family life, Mozart remained a free-lance opera writer all his life.\n\nThe 1768 fiasco in Vienna proved as important, if not more, for Mozart's future as what happened later in Milan in 1773. In both cases he was able to compose brilliant operas, and in both cases he was unable to gain the kind of recognition that would have resulted in a nomination by a court to a permanent position as opera composer. His life, and the world's legacy of Mozart operas, would have been different, if the fates had smiled on him, and the Habsburgs had been more understanding and supportive.\n\nAct 1 \n\nCaptain Fracasso and his Hungarian troops are stationed near Cremona. He and his sergeant Simone have been lodging for two months in the home of Don Cassandro, who lives in his grand house with his weak-in-the-head brother Polidoro, and their beautiful sister, Giacinta. Inevitably, Captain Fracasso falls in love with Giacinta, and Simone with the chambermaid Ninetta. Fracasso and Giacinta want to marry, as do Simone and Ninetta. But they can't do it without the consent of the brothers Cassandro and Polidoro. The two brothers are comfortable with their status quo – they are confirmed misogynists, and unwilling to part with their sister. The wily soubrette Ninetta devises a plan to outwit the brothers, with the collaboration of Rosina, Fracasso's sister, who happens to be \"visiting\". Rosina (\"prima donna\") poses as a naïve innocent who is going to make both brothers fall in love with her until they agree to the marriages. Polidoro falls in love with Rosina first and proposes marriage immediately. At first Cassandro is indifferent, but eventually his defences are completely disarmed through Rosina's feigned naïvety and innocence. So far, the plan is working.\n\nAct 2 \n\nPolidoro naively believes Rosina is planning to marry him. Rosina coaches him for a confrontation with his brother Cassandro. Polidoro demands half of his inheritance from Cassandro. Giacinta fears a quarrel between the brothers, but the others look forward to their fight. Rosina and Fracasso congratulate each other for their successful plan to outwit Cassandro. They continue to engineer the rest of the plot. Simone takes Giacinta into hiding. Fracasso tells the brothers that Giacinta has fled, absconding with the family money. The plan is so successful that Ninetta disappears as well. Simone announces that Ninetta has also fled, taking along whatever she could get. The brothers agree that whoever can bring the two girls back should be allowed to marry them, even keeping whatever loot can be found. Fracasso and Simone volunteer to go on the search.\n\nAct 3 \n\nSimone finds Ninetta and they rejoice that they soon will get married. Fracasso finds Giacinta, but she is afraid that when she returns, her brother will not agree to her marrying Fracasso, but Fracasso assures Giacinta that Rosina has bewitched the brothers and has them under her complete control. Fracasso and Giacinta rejoice at their pairing off. Rosina is confronted with her own choice between both brothers. She rejects Polidoro, who is heartbroken and agrees to marry Cassandro. They both mercilessly mock Polidoro for his stupidity. All ends well for the three couples, except for the odd man out, Polidoro, who is left alone.\n\nThere are 26 numbers:\n\n\nSee Leopold Hager's January 1983 complete reference recording\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7720908", "categories": ["Operas by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart", "Opera buffa", "Italian-language operas", "Operas", "Operas set in Italy", "1769 operas"], "title": "La finta semplice"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720923", "text": "Crab Orchard Series in Poetry Open Competition Awards\n\nThe Crab Orchard Series in Poetry Open Competition Awards are relatively large prizes given out each year to poets with unpublished manuscripts. In addition to the cash prizes, two winners get published by a university press.\n\nThe \"Crab Orchard Review\", a biannual journal of creative works published by the Department of English of Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, and Southern Illinois University Press organize the competition, which gives out $3,500 to two winners. Winners must be U.S. citizens or permanent residents of the United States.\n\nPrior to 2009, the Crab Orchard Series in Poetry Open Competition Awards awarded a first place and a second place. These winners received different prize amounts, but all winning manuscripts were published by Southern Illinois University Press.\n\n", "id": "7720923", "categories": [], "title": "Crab Orchard Series in Poetry Open Competition Awards"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720935", "text": "Wyalusing State Park\n\nWyalusing State Park is a Wisconsin state park at the confluence of the Mississippi and Wisconsin rivers in the town of Wyalusing, just south of Prairie du Chien. Wyalusing means \"home of the warrior\" in the Lenape language spoken by Munsee-Delaware tribes who settled in the area in the 19th century after being displaced from farther east. bluffs dotted with prehistoric Native American mounds look out over the river valleys. Two park resources have been recognized nationally: the Wyalusing Hardwood Forest is a National Natural Landmark and the Wyalusing State Park Mounds Archaeological District is on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe park is in the Driftless Area of Wisconsin, a portion of territory that remained ice free during the last ice age, while land to the east and west was crushed by glaciers. The high bluffs along the Mississippi River and the large deep canyon of the Wisconsin River are evidence of glacial meltwaters reshaping this region.\n\n", "id": "7720935", "categories": ["IUCN Category V", "National Register of Historic Places in Grant County, Wisconsin", "Driftless Area", "Protected areas established in 1917", "National Natural Landmarks in Wisconsin", "Archaeological sites on the National Register of Historic Places in Wisconsin", "Protected areas on the Mississippi River", "Protected areas of Grant County, Wisconsin", "State parks of Wisconsin"], "title": "Wyalusing State Park"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720964", "text": "Ray Santiago\n\nRaymond \"Ray\" Santiago (born June 15, 1984 in South Bronx, New York) is an American actor of Puerto Rican descent.\n\nSantiago graduated in 2002 from Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School for the Arts in New York City.\n\nRaymond Santiago played Jorge Villalobos in the film \"Meet the Fockers\", and had minor roles in 2005's \"Dirty Deeds\" and 2006's \"Accepted\". He also starred as Michelle Rodriguez's brother, Tiny Guzman in the 2000 film \"Girlfight\", as Lardo in 2009's \"Endless Bummer\" and as Alberto in Suburban Gothic.\n\nHe also played in the 2006 film \"The Sasquatch Dumpling Gang\" (also known as \"The Sasquatch Gang\"), alongside Justin Long, and in \"American Son\" along Nick Cannon. He also appeared in the 2011 film \"In Time\". Santiago appeared in episodes of the television series \"My Name is Earl\", \"Crossing Jordan\", \"\" and \"Dexter\". In the \"Ash vs. Evil Dead\" television series from 2015-2018, he portrayed Pablo Simon Bolivar, an immigrant co-worker who becomes Ash's sidekick.\n\nSantiago is openly gay.\n", "id": "7720964", "categories": ["People from the Bronx", "1984 births", "American male film actors", "LGBT people of Puerto Rican descent", "LGBT entertainers from the United States", "American male television actors", "Living people", "Male actors from New York City", "Gay actors", "Hispanic and Latino American actors"], "title": "Ray Santiago"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720970", "text": "Femtosecond pulse shaping\n\nIn optics, femtosecond pulse shaping refers to manipulations with temporal profile of an ultrashort laser pulse. Pulse shaping can be used to shorten/elongate the duration of optical pulse, or to generate complex pulses.\n\nGeneration of sequences of ultrashort optical pulses is key in realizing ultra high speed optical networks, Optical Code Division Multiple Access (OCDMA) systems, chemical and biological reaction triggering and monitoring etc. Based on the requirement, pulse shapers may be designed to stretch, compress or produce a train of pulses from a single input pulse. The ability to produce trains of pulses with femtosecond or picosecond separation implies transmission of optical information at very high speeds.\n\nIn ultrafast laser science pulse shapers are often used as a compliment to pulse compressors in order to fine-tune high-order dispersion compensation and achieve transform-limited few-cycle optical pulses.\n\nA pulse shaper may be visualized as a modulator. The input pulse is multiplied with a modulating function to get a desired output pulse. The modulating function in pulse shapers may be in time domain or a frequency domain (obtained by Fourier Transform of time profile of pulse). However, application of direct pulse shaping technique on a femtosecond time scale faces the same problem as direct femtosecond pulse measurement: electronics speed limitations. Michelson interferometer can be regarded as direct space-to-time pulse shaper since position of the moving mirror is directly transferred to the inter-pulse delay of the output pulse pair.\n\nAn ultrashort pulse with a well-defined electrical field formula_1 can be modified with an appropriate filter acting in the frequency domain. Mathematically, the pulse is Fourier transformed, filtered, and back-transformed to yield a new pulse:\nIt is possible to design an optical setup with an arbitrary filter function formula_3 which can be complex-valued, as long as formula_4. Figure 1 shows how a bandwidth-limited pulse could be transformed into a chirped pulse (with a filter only acting on the phase) or into a more complex pulse (with the filter acting on both phase and amplitude).\n\nOne can distinguish FT pulse shapers by their optical design: i.e., collinear shapers and transverse shapers, and by their programmability, i.e., static (or manually adjustable) shapers and programmable shapers.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7720970", "categories": [], "title": "Femtosecond pulse shaping"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720979", "text": "Emil Viklický\n\nEmil Viklický (born November 23, 1948 in Olomouc) is a Czech jazz pianist and composer.\n\nViklický graduated from Palacký University in 1971 with a degree in mathematics. As a student he devoted a lot of time to playing jazz piano, and in 1974, he was awarded the prize for best soloist at the Czechoslovak Amateur Jazz Festival. The same year he joined Karel Velebný's SHQ ensemble. In 1976, he was a prizewinner at a jazz improvisation competition in Lyon, and his composition \"Green Satin\" () won first prize in a music conservatory competition in Monaco. In 1985 his composition \"Cacharel\" won second prize in the same competition.\n\nIn 1977 he was awarded a year's scholarship to study composition and arrangement with Herb Pomeroy at Berklee College of Music in Boston. He then continued his composition studies with Jarmo Sermila, George Crumb and Václav Kučera. Since returning to Prague, he has led his own ensembles (primarily quartets and quintets), composed and arranged, and - after the death of Karel Velebný - worked as director of the Summer Jazz Workshops in Frýdlant. He has lectured at a similar workshop event in Glamorgan, Wales. Between 1991 and 1995, Viklický was President of the Czech Jazz Society, and since 1994 he has worked with the Ad lib Moravia ensemble, whose performances combine elements of Moravian folk music, modern jazz and contemporary serious music. In 1996, the ensemble went on a concert tour of Mexico and the United States.\n\nAs a pianist, Viklický has performed in numerous international ensembles alongside musicians from the U.S. and other European countries, including the Lou Blackburn International Quartet, the Benny Bailey Quintet, and multi-instrumentalist Scott Robinson. He has made frequent appearances in Finland (with the Finnczech Quartet and in particular with Jarmo Sermila) and Norway (with the Czech-Norwegian Big Band and ) and has performed in the USA, Japan, Mexico, Israel, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands (at the North Sea Festival) and elsewhere. He has also worked with fellow Czech, saxophonist Jaroslav Jakubovič, and often accompanied Czech jazz singer Eva Olmerová, during the last years of her career.\n\nAs a composer, Viklický has attracted attention abroad primarily for having created a synthesis of the expressive elements of modern jazz with the melodicism and tonalities of Moravian folk song that is distinctly individual in contemporary jazz. Besides this, however, he also composes “straight-ahead” modern jazz as well as chamber and orchestral works that utilize certain elements of the New Music, and at times his music requires a combination of classical and jazz performers. He also composes incidental and film music and has produced scores for several full-length feature films (\"e.g.\" the German horror comedy \"Killer Condom\") and television series. Throughout the 1990s he devoted an increasing amount of time to the composition of contemporary classical music for a great variety of instrumental combinations ranging from small chamber ensembles and electronic instruments to symphony orchestras and choruses.\n\nViklický's work has gained him a number of awards. These include second prize in the 1985 Monaco jazz composition competition (for \"Cacharel\"), the 1991 Film and Television Association prize for music for animated film, second prize at the 1994 Marimolin contemporary music competition in Boston (for \"Tristana\"), a 1996 Prague award for electroacoustic music (for \"Paradise Park\"), a 1996 Czech Music Fund prize for use of folk music in art music, and first prize in a 2000 international composition competition in Prague (for the opera \"Phaedra\").\n\n\n", "id": "7720979", "categories": ["Czech jazz pianists", "Living people", "Czech musicians", "21st-century male musicians", "1948 births", "Czech film score composers", "Czech pianists", "Male jazz musicians", "People from Olomouc", "Male film score composers", "Male pianists", "Palacký University alumni", "Male composers", "21st-century pianists", "Czech jazz musicians", "Czech composers"], "title": "Emil Viklický"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720992", "text": "Michael Levine\n\nMichael Levine may refer to:\n\n\n", "id": "7720992", "categories": [], "title": "Michael Levine"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720999", "text": "Pearce Bailey\n\nPearce Bailey (1865–1922) was an American neurologist and psychiatrist, educated at Princeton and Columbia Universities. He became a consultant in several New York hospitals and with Collins and Frankel founded the Neurological Institute. He was also appointed an associate professor of neurology in Columbia. On the entry of the United States into World War I, he was appointed chief of the division of neurology and psychiatry in the United States army with the rank of colonel. He perfected a system for weeding out \"mental defectives\" which is said to have been used as a model by the Allies. His major literary efforts comprised a translation of Golobievski's \"Atlas and Epitome of Diseases Caused by Accident (1900) and a monograph \"Accident and Injury\"; Relation to the Nervous System\" (1906), which was later expanded into \"Diseases of the Nervous System Resulting from Accident and Injury\", a valuable work for the medical world. At the time of his death, Bailey was chairman of the New York State Committee for Mental Defectives.\n", "id": "7720999", "categories": ["Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons alumni", "American military personnel of World War I", "1865 births", "American neurologists", "1922 deaths", "Princeton University alumni"], "title": "Pearce Bailey"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721010", "text": "Cultural assimilation of Native Americans\n\nThe cultural assimilation of Native Americans was an assimilation effort by the United States to transform Native American culture to European–American culture between the years of 1790 and 1920. George Washington and Henry Knox were first to propose, in an American context, the cultural transformation of Native Americans. They formulated a policy to encourage the civilizing process. With increased waves of immigration from Europe, there was growing public support for education to encourage a standard set of cultural values and practices to be held in common by the majority of citizens. Education was viewed as the primary method in the acculturation process for minorities.\n\nAmericanization policies were based on the idea that when indigenous people learned United States (American) customs and values, they would be able to merge tribal traditions with American culture and peacefully join the majority of the society. After the end of the Indian Wars, in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the government outlawed the practice of traditional religious ceremonies. It established Native American boarding schools which children were required to attend. In these schools they were forced to speak English, study standard subjects, attend church, and leave tribal traditions behind.\n\nThe Dawes Act of 1887, which allotted tribal lands in severalty to individuals, was seen as a way to create individual homesteads for Native Americans. Land allotments were made in exchange for Native Americans becoming US citizens and giving up some forms of tribal self-government and institutions. It resulted in the transfer of an estimated total of from Native American control. Most was sold to individuals or given out free through the Homestead law, or given directly to Indians as individuals. The Indian Citizenship Act of 1924 was also part of Americanization policy; it gave full citizenship to all Indians living on reservations. The leading opponent of forced assimilation was John Collier, who directed the federal Office of Indian Affairs from 1933 to 1945, and tried to reverse many of the established policies.\n\nEpidemiological and archeological work has established the effects of increased immigration of children accompanying families to North America from 1634–1640. They came from areas where smallpox was endemic in the Netherlands, England and France, and passed on the disease to indigenous people. Tribes such as the Huron/Wendat and others in the Northeast particularly suffered epidemics after 1634.\n\nDuring this period European powers fought to acquire cultural and economic control of North America, just as they were doing in Europe. At the same time, indigenous peoples competed for dominance in the European fur trade and hunting areas. The French, English and Spanish powers sought to engage Native American tribes as auxiliary forces in their North American armies, otherwise composed mostly of colonial militia in the early battles. In many cases indigenous warriors formed the great majority of fighting forces, which deepened some of their rivalries. To secure the help of the tribes, the Europeans offered goods and signed treaties. The treaties usually promised that the European power would honor the tribe's traditional lands and independence. In addition, the indigenous peoples formed alliances for their own reasons, wanting to keep allies in the fur and gun trades, positioning European allies against their traditional enemies among other tribes, etc. Many Native American tribes took part in King William's War (1689–1697), Queen Anne's War (1702–1713) (War of the Spanish Succession), Dummer's War (c. 1721–1725), and the French and Indian War (1754–1763) (Seven Years' War).\n\nAs the dominant power after the Seven Years' War, Great Britain instituted the Royal Proclamation of 1763, to try to protect indigenous peoples' territory from colonial encroachment of peoples from east of the Appalachian Mountains. The document defined a boundary to separate Native American country from that of the European community. In part, this justified the English taking complete control of lands on the European side, but the proclamation did not effectively prevent individual ethnic European colonists from continuing to migrate westward. The British did not have sufficient forces to patrol the border and keep out colonists. Europeans and European governments continued to use military/diplomatic and economic force to secure control of more territories from Native Americans. For further information see European colonization of the Americas.\n\nFrom the Native American perspective, European control of an area generally means a dramatic change in their way of life, with free movement across hunting grounds curtailed or objected to, for instance, by Europeans who had different conceptions of property and the uses of land.\n\nThe struggle for empire in North America caused the United States in its earliest years to adopt an Indian policy similar to the one devised by Great Britain in colonial times. They realized that good relations with bordering tribes were important for political and trading reasons, but as had the British, they reserved the right to abandon these good relations to absorb the lands of their enemies and allies alike as the agricultural frontier moved west. The United States continued the use of Native Americans as allies, including during the American Revolutionary War and the War of 1812. As relations with England and Spain normalized during the early 19th century, the need for such friendly relations ended. It was no longer necessary to \"woo\" the tribes to prevent the other powers from using them against the United States. Now, instead of a buffer against other \"civilized\" foes, the tribes often became viewed as an obstacle in the expansion of the United States.\n\nGeorge Washington formulated a policy to encourage the \"civilizing\" process. He had a six-point plan for civilization which included:\n\n\nRobert Remini, a historian, wrote that \"once the Indians adopted the practice of private property, built homes, farmed, educated their children, and embraced Christianity, these Native Americans would win acceptance from white Americans\". The United States appointed agents, like Benjamin Hawkins, to live among the Native Americans and to teach them how to live like whites.\n\nThe Indian Removal Act of 1830 characterized the US government policy of Indian removal, which called for relocation of Native American tribes living east of the Mississippi River to lands west of the river. While it did not authorize the forced removal of the indigenous tribes, it authorized the President to negotiate land exchange treaties with tribes located in lands of the United States. The Intercourse Law of 1834 prohibited United States citizens from entering tribal lands granted by such treaties without permission, though it was often ignored.\n\nOn September 27, 1830, the Choctaws signed Treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek and the first Native American tribe was to be voluntarily removed. The agreement represented one of the largest transfers of land that was signed between the U.S. Government and Native Americans without being instigated by warfare. By the treaty, the Choctaws signed away their remaining traditional homelands, opening them up for American settlement in Mississippi Territory.\n\nWhile the Indian Removal Act made the relocation of the tribes voluntary, it was often abused by government officials. The best-known example is the Treaty of New Echota. It was negotiated and signed by a small fraction of Cherokee tribal members, not the tribal leadership, on December 29, 1835. While tribal leaders objected to Washington, DC and the treaty was revised in 1836, the state of Georgia proceeded to act against the Cherokee tribe. The tribe was forced to relocate in 1838. An estimated 4,000 Cherokees died in the march, now known as the Trail of Tears.\n\nIn the decades that followed, white settlers encroached even into the western lands set aside for Native Americans. American settlers eventually made homesteads from coast to coast, just as the Native Americans had before them. No tribe was untouched by the influence of white traders, farmers, and soldiers.\n\nThe Office of Indian Affairs (Bureau of Indian Affairs as of 1947) was established on March 11, 1824, as an office of the United States Department of War, an indication of the state of relations with the Indians. It became responsible for negotiating treaties and enforcing conditions, at least for Native Americans. In 1849 the bureau was transferred to the Department of the Interior as so many of its responsibilities were related to the holding and disposition of large land assets.\n\nIn 1854 Commissioner George W. Manypenny called for a new code of regulations. He noted that there was no place in the West where the Indians could be placed with a reasonable hope that they might escape conflict with white settlers. He also called for the Intercourse Law of 1834 to be revised, as its provisions had been aimed at individual intruders on Indian territory rather than at organized expeditions.\n\nIn 1858 the succeeding Commissioner, Charles Mix, noted that the repeated removal of tribes had prevented them from acquiring a taste for European way of life. In 1862 Secretary of the Interior Caleb B. Smith questioned the wisdom of treating tribes as quasi-independent nations. Given the difficulties of the government in what it considered good efforts to support separate status for Native Americans, appointees and officials began to consider a policy of Americanization instead.\n\nThe movement to reform Indian administration and assimilate Indians as citizens originated in the pleas of people who lived in close association with the natives and were shocked by the fraudulent and indifferent management of their affairs. They called themselves \"Friends of the Indian\" and lobbied officials on their behalf. Gradually the call for change was taken up by Eastern reformers. Typically the reformers were Protestants from well organized denominations who considered assimilation necessary to the Christianizing of the Indians; Catholics were also involved. The 19th century was a time of major efforts in evangelizing missionary expeditions to all non-Christian people. In 1865 the government began to make contracts with various missionary societies to operate Indian schools for teaching citizenship, English, and agricultural and mechanical arts.\n\nIn his State of the Union Address on December 4, 1871, Ulysses Grant stated that \"the policy pursued toward the Indians has resulted favorably ... many tribes of Indians have been induced to settle upon reservations, to cultivate the soil, to perform productive labor of various kinds, and to partially accept civilization. They are being cared for in such a way, it is hoped, as to induce those still pursuing their old habits of life to embrace the only opportunity which is left them to avoid extermination.\" The emphasis became using civilian workers (not soldiers) to deal with reservation life, especially Protestant and Catholic organizations. The Quakers had promoted the peace policy in the expectation that applying Christian principles to Indian affairs would eliminate corruption and speed assimilation. Most Indians joined churches but there were unexpected problems, such as rivalry between Protestants and Catholics for control of specific reservations in order to maximize the number of souls converted.\n\nThe Quakers were motivated by high ideals, played down the role of conversion, and worked well with the Indians. They had been highly organized and motivated by the anti-slavery crusade, and after the Civil War expanded their energies to include both ex-slaves and the western tribes. They had Grant's ear and became the principal instruments for his peace policy. During 1869–1885, they served as appointed agents on numerous reservations and superintendencies in a mission centered on moral uplift and manual training. Their ultimate goal of acculturating the Indians to American culture was not reached because of frontier land hunger and Congressional patronage politics.\n\nMany other denominations volunteered to help. In 1871, John H. Stout, sponsored by the Dutch Reformed Church, was sent to the Pima reservation in Arizona to implement the policy. However Congress, the church, and private charities spent less money than was needed; the local whites strongly disliked the Indians; the Pima balked at removal; and Stout was frustrated at every turn.\n\nIn Arizona and New Mexico, the Navajo were resettled on reservations and grew rapidly in numbers. The Peace Policy began in 1870 when the Presbyterians took over the reservations. They were frustrated because they did not understand the Navajo. However, the Navajo not only gave up raiding but soon became successful at sheep ranching.\n\nThe peace policy did not fully apply to the Indian tribes that had supported the Confederacy. They lost much of their land as the United States began to confiscate the western portions of the Indian Territory and began to resettle the Indians there on smaller reservations.\n\nReaction to the massacre of Lt. Col. George Custer's unit at the Battle of the Little Big Horn in 1876 was shock and dismay at the failure of the Peace Policy. The Indian appropriations measure of August 1876 marked the end of Grant's Peace Policy. The Sioux were given the choice of either selling their lands in the Black Hills for cash or not receiving government gifts of food and other supplies.\n\nIn 1882, Interior Secretary Henry M. Teller called attention to the \"great hindrance\" of Indian customs to the progress of assimilation. The resultant \"Code of Indian Offenses\" in 1883 outlined the procedure for suppressing \"evil practice.\"\n\nA Court of Indian Offenses, consisting of three Indians appointed by the Indian Agent, was to be established at each Indian agency. The Court would serve as judges to punish offenders. Outlawed behavior included participation in traditional dances and feasts, polygamy, reciprocal gift giving and funeral practices, and intoxication or sale of liquor. Also prohibited were \"medicine men\" who \"use any of the arts of the conjurer to prevent the Indians from abandoning their heathenish rites and customs.\" The penalties prescribed for violations ranged from 10 to 90 days imprisonment and loss of government-provided rations for up to 30 days.\n\nThe Five Civilized Tribes were exempt from the Code which remained in effect until 1933.\n\nIn implementation on reservations by Indian judges, the Court of Indian Offenses became mostly an institution to punish minor crimes. The 1890 report of the Secretary of the Interior lists the activities of the Court on several reservations and apparently no Indian was prosecuted for dances or \"heathenish ceremonies.\" Significantly, 1890 was the year of the Ghost Dance, ending with the Wounded Knee Massacre.\n\nIn 1857, Chief Justice Roger B. Taney expressed that since Native Americans were \"free and independent people\" that they could become U.S. citizens. Taney asserted that Native Americans could be naturalized and join the \"political community\" of the United States.\n\nThe political ideas during the time of assimilation policy are known by many Indians as the progressive era, but more commonly known as the assimilation era.(1890–1928). The progressive era was characterized by a resolve to emphasize the importance of dignity and independence in the modern industrialized world. This idea is applied to Native Americans in a quote from Indian Affairs Commissioner John Oberly: \"[The Native American] must be imbued with the exalting egotism of American civilization so that he will say ‘I’ instead of ‘We’, and ‘This is mine’ instead of ‘This is ours’.\" Progressives also had a faith in the knowledge of experts. This was a dangerous idea to have when an emerging science was concerned with ranking races based on moral capabilities and intelligence. Indeed, the idea of an inferior Indian race made it into the courts. The progressive era thinkers also wanted to look beyond legal definitions of equality to create a realistic concept of fairness. Such a concept was thought to include a reasonable income, decent working conditions, as well as health and leisure for every American. These ideas can be seen in the decisions of the Supreme Court during the assimilation era.\n\nThrough cases such as Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, Talton v. Mayes, Winters vs. United States, United States v. Winans, United States v. Nice, and United States v. Sandoval the court set many precedents and provided building blocks for much of the new legislation concerning Native Americans. One of the basic decisions that had to be made in most of these cases was how to classify the Indian nations and what rights they were to have. Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock provides an excellent example of the implementation of the paternal view of Native Americans as it refers back to the idea of Indians as \"wards of the nation.\" Some other issues that came into play were the hunting and fishing rights of the natives, especially when land beyond theirs affected their own practices, whether or not Constitutional rights necessarily applied to Indians, and whether tribal governments had the power to establish their own laws. As new legislation tried to force the American Indians into becoming just Americans, the Supreme Court provided these critical decisions. Native American nations were labeled \"domestic dependent nations\" by Marshall in Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, one of the first landmark cases involving Indians. Some decisions focused more on the dependency of the tribes, while others preserved tribal sovereignty, while still others sometimes managed to do both.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court case \"United States v. Kagama\" (1886) set the stage for the court to make even more powerful decisions based on plenary power. To summarize congressional plenary power, the court stated:\n\nThe decision in \"United States v. Kagama\" led to the new idea that \"protection\" of Native Americans could justify intrusion into intratribal affairs. The Supreme Court and Congress were given unlimited authority with which to force assimilation and acculturation of Native Americans into American society.\n\nDuring the years leading up to passage of the Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead Act, \"United States v. Nice\" (1916), was a result of the idea of barring American Indians from the sale of liquor. The United States Supreme Court case overruled a decision made eleven years before, \"Matter of Heff\", , which allowed American Indian U.S. citizens to drink liquor. The quick reversal shows how law concerning American Indians often shifted with the changing governmental and popular views of American Indian tribes. The US Congress continued to prohibit the sale of liquor to American Indians. While many tribal governments had long prohibited the sale of alcohol on their reservations, the ruling implied that American Indian nations could not be entirely independent, and needed a guardian for protection.\n\nLike \"United States v. Nice,\" the United States Supreme Court case of \"United States v. Sandoval\" (1913) rose from efforts to bar American Indians from the sale of liquor. As American Indians were granted citizenship, there was an effort to retain the ability to protect them as a group which was distinct from regular citizens. The Sandoval Act reversed the \"U.S. v. Joseph\" decision of 1876, which claimed that the Pueblo were not considered federal Indians. The 1913 ruling claimed that the Pueblo were \"not beyond the range of congressional power under the Constitution\". This case resulted in Congress continuing to prohibit the sale of liquor to American Indians. The ruling continued to suggest that American Indians needed protection.\n\nThere were several United States Supreme Court cases during the assimilation era that focused on the sovereignty of American Indian nations. These cases were extremely important in setting precedents for later cases and for legislation dealing with the sovereignty of American Indian nations.\n\n\"Ex parte Crow Dog\" was a US Supreme Court appeal by an Indian who had been found guilty of murder and sentenced to death. The defendant was an American Indian who had been found guilty of the murder of another American Indian. Crow Dog argued that the district court did not have the jurisdiction to try him for a crime committed between two American Indians that happened on an American Indian reservation. The court found that although the reservation was located within the territory covered by the district court's jurisdiction, Rev. Stat. § 2146 precluded the inmate's indictment in the district court. Section 2146 stated that Rev. Stat. § 2145, which made the criminal laws of the United States applicable to Indian country, did not apply to crimes committed by one Indian against another, or to crimes for which an Indian was already punished by the law of his tribe. The Court issued the writs of \"habeas corpus\" and \"certiorari\" to the Indian.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court case of \"Talton v. Mayes\" was a decision respecting the authority of tribal governments. This case decided that the individual rights protections, specifically the Fifth Amendment, which limit federal, and later, state governments, do not apply to tribal government. It reaffirmed earlier decisions, such as the 1831 \"Cherokee Nation v. Georgia\" case, that gave Indian tribes the status of \"domestic dependent nations\", the sovereignty of which is independent of the federal government. \"Talton v. Mayes\" is also a case dealing with Native American dependence, as it deliberated over and upheld the concept of congressional plenary authority. This part of the decision led to some important pieces of legislation concerning Native Americans, the most important of which is the Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968.\n\nThis United States Supreme Court case occurred when an American Indian shot and killed a non-Indian. The question arose of whether or not the United States Supreme Court had jurisdiction over this issue. In an effort to argue against the Supreme Court having jurisdiction over the proceedings, the defendant filed a petition seeking a writ of certiorari. This request for judicial review, upon writ of error, was denied. The court held that a conviction for murder, punishable with death, was no less a conviction for a capital crime by reason even taking into account the fact that the jury qualified the punishment. The American Indian defendant was sentenced to life in prison.\n\nThis United States Supreme court case came about when the surviving partner of the firm of E. Montoya & Sons petitioned against the United States and the Mescalero Apache Indians for the value their livestock which was taken in March 1880. It was believed that the livestock was taken by \"Victorio's Band\" which was a group of these American Indians. It was argued that the group of American Indians who had taken the livestock were distinct from any other American Indian tribal group, and therefore the Mescalero Apache American Indian tribe should not be held responsible for what had occurred. After the hearing, the Supreme Court held that the judgment made previously in the Court of Claims would not be changed. This is to say that the Mescalero Apache American Indian tribe would not be held accountable for the actions of Victorio's Band. This outcome demonstrates not only the sovereignty of American Indian tribes from the United States, but also their sovereignty from one another. One group of American Indians cannot be held accountable for the actions of another group of American Indians, even though they are all part of the American Indian nation.\n\nIn this case, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Yakama tribe, reaffirming their prerogative to fish and hunt on off-reservation land. Further, the case established two important principles regarding the interpretation of treaties. First, treaties would be interpreted in the way Indians would have understood them and \"as justice and reason demand\". Second, the Reserved Rights Doctrine was established which states that treaties are not rights granted to the Indians, but rather \"a reservation by the Indians of rights already possessed and not granted away by them\". These \"reserved\" rights, meaning never having been transferred to the United States or any other sovereign, include property rights, which include the rights to fish, hunt and gather, and political rights. Political rights reserved to the Indian nations include the power to regulate domestic relations, tax, administer justice, or exercise civil and criminal jurisdiction.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court case \"Winters v. United States\" was a case primarily dealing with water rights of American Indian reservations. This case clarified what water sources American Indian tribes had \"implied\" rights to put to use. This case dealt with the Fort Belknap Indian Reservation and their right to utilize the water source of the Milk River in Montana. The reservation had been created without clearly stating the explicit water rights that the Fort Belknap American Indian reservation had. This became a problem once non-Indian settlers began moving into the area and using the Milk River as a water source for their settlements. As water sources are extremely sparse and limited in Montana, this argument of who had the legal rights to use the water was presented. After the case was tried, the Supreme Court came to the decision that the Fort Belknap reservation had reserved water rights through the 1888 agreement which had created the American Indian Reservation in the first place. This case was very important in setting a precedent for cases after the assimilation era. It was used as a precedent for the cases \"Arizona v. California\", \"Tulee v. Washington\", \"Washington v. McCoy\", \"Nevada v. United States\", \"Cappaert v. United States\", \"Colorado River Water Conservation Dist. v. United States\", \"United States v. New Mexico\", and \"Arizona v. San Carlos Apache Tribe of Arizona\" which all focused on the sovereignty of American Indian tribes.\n\nAs more Native Americans received allotments through the Dawes Act, there was a great deal of public and state pressure to tax allottees. However, in the United States Supreme court case \"Choate v. Trapp\", , the court ruled for Indian allottees to be exempt from state taxation.\n\nThis United States Supreme Court case resulted when a defendant appealed the decision on his case. The defendant filed a writ of error to obtain review of his conviction after being convicted of unlawfully introducing intoxicating liquor into an American Indian reservation. This act was found a violation of the Act of Congress of January 30, 1897, ch. 109, 29 Stat. 506. The defendant's appeal stated that the district court lacked jurisdiction because the offense for which he was convicted did not occur in American Indian country. The defendant had been arrested while traveling on a train that had just crossed over from American Indian country. The defendant's argument held and the Supreme Court reversed the defendant's conviction remanding the cause to the district court with directions to quash the indictment and discharge the defendant.\n\nThis case was sent to the United States Supreme Court after first appearing in a district court in South Dakota. The case dealt with adultery committed on a Sioux Indian reservation. The district court had held that adultery committed by an Indian with another Indian on an Indian reservation was not punishable under the act of March 3, 1887, c. 397, 24 Stat. 635, now § 316 of the Penal Code. This decision was made because the offense occurred on a Sioux Indian reservation which is not said to be under jurisdiction of the district court. The United States Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the district court saying that the adultery was not punishable as it had occurred between two American Indians on an American Indian reservation.\n\nIn 1634, Fr. Andrew White of the Society of Jesus established a mission in what is now the state of Maryland, and the purpose of the mission, stated through an interpreter to the chief of an Indian tribe there, was \"to extend civilization and instruction to his ignorant race, and show them the way to heaven\". The mission's annual records report that by 1640, a community had been founded which they named St. Mary's, and the Indians were sending their children there \"to be educated among the English\". This included the daughter of the Pascatoe Indian chief Tayac, which exemplified, or an early co-ed school. The same records report that in 1677, \"a school for humanities was opened by our Society in the centre of [Maryland], directed by two of the Fathers; and the native youth, applying themselves assiduously to study, made good progress. Maryland and the recently established school sent two boys to St. Omer who yielded in abilities to few Europeans, when competing for the honour of being first in their class. So that not gold, nor silver, nor the other products of the earth alone, but men also are gathered from thence to bring those regions, which foreigners have unjustly called ferocious, to a higher state of virtue and cultivation.\"\n\nIn 1727, the Sisters of the Order of Saint Ursula founded Ursuline Academy in New Orleans, which is currently the oldest, continuously-operating school for girls and the oldest Catholic school in the United States. From the time of its foundation it offered the first classes for Native American girls, and would later offer classes for female African-American slaves and free women of color.\n\nThe Carlisle Indian Industrial School founded by Richard Henry Pratt in 1879 was the first Indian boarding school established. Pratt was encouraged by the progress of Native Americans whom he had supervised as prisoners in Florida, where they had received basic education. When released, several were sponsored by American church groups to attend institutions such as Hampton Institute. He believed education was the means to bring American Indians into society.\n\nPratt professed \"assimilation through total immersion\". Because he had seen men educated at schools like Hampton Institute become educated and assimilated, he believed the principles could be extended to Indian children. Immersing them in the larger culture would help them adapt. In addition to reading, writing, and arithmetic, the Carlisle curriculum was modeled on the many industrial schools: it constituted vocational training for boys and domestic science for girls, in expectation of their opportunities on the reservations, including chores around the school and producing goods for market. In the summer, students were assigned to local farms and townspeople for boarding and to continue their immersion. They also provided labor at low cost, at a time when many children earned pay for their families.\n\nCarlisle and its curriculum became the model for schools sponsored by the Bureau of Indian Affairs. By 1902 there were twenty-five federally funded non-reservation schools across fifteen states and territories with a total enrollment of over 6,000. Although federal legislation made education compulsory for Native Americans, removing students from reservations required parental authorization. Officials coerced parents into releasing a quota of students from any given reservation.\n\nOnce the new students arrived at the boarding schools, their lives altered drastically. They were usually given new haircuts, uniforms of European-American style clothes, and even new English names, sometimes based on their own, other times assigned at random. They could no longer speak their own languages, even with each other. They were expected to attend Christian churches. Their lives were run by the strict orders of their teachers, and it often included grueling chores and stiff punishments.\n\nAdditionally, infectious disease was widespread in society, and often swept through the schools. This was due to lack of information about causes and prevention, inadequate sanitation, insufficient funding for meals, overcrowded conditions, and students whose resistance was low.\n\nAn Indian boarding school was one of many schools that were established in the United States during the late 19th century to educate Native American youths according to American standards. In some areas, these schools were primarily run by missionaries. Especially given the young age of some of the children sent to the schools, they have been documented as traumatic experiences for many of the children who attended them. They were generally forbidden to speak their native languages, taught Christianity instead of their native religions, and in numerous other ways forced to abandon their Indian identity and adopt American culture. Many cases of mental and sexual abuse have been documented, as in North Dakota.\n\nBy 1923 in the Northwest, most Indian schools had closed and Indian students were attending public schools. States took on increasing responsibility for their education. Other studies suggest attendance in some Indian boarding schools grew in areas of the United States throughout the first half of the 20th century, doubling from 1900 to the 1960s. Enrollment reached its highest point in the 1970s. In 1973, 60,000 American Indian children were estimated to have been enrolled in an Indian boarding school. In 1976, the Tobeluk vs Lund case was brought by teenage Native Alaskan plaintiffs against the State of Alaska alleging that the public school situation was still an unequal one.\n\nThe Meriam Report, officially titled \"The Problem of Indian Administration\", was prepared for the Department of Interior. Assessments found the schools to be underfunded and understaffed, too heavily institutionalized, and run too rigidly. What had started as an idealistic program about education had gotten subverted.\n\nIt recommended:\n\nJohn Collier, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, 1933–1945, set the priorities of the New Deal policies toward Native Americans, with an emphasis on reversing as much of the assimilationist policy as he could. Collier was instrumental in ending the loss of reservations lands held by Indians, and in enabling many tribal nations to re-institute self-government and preserve their traditional culture. Some Indian tribes rejected the unwarranted outside interference with their own political systems the new approach had brought them.\n\nCollier's 1920– 1922 visit to Taos Pueblo had a lasting impression on Collier. He now saw the Indian world as morally superior to American society, which he considered to be \"physically, religiously, socially, and aesthetically shattered, dismembered, directionless\". Collier came under attack for his romantic views about the moral superiority of traditional society as opposed to modernity. Philp says after his experience at the Taos Pueblo, Collier \"made a lifelong commitment to preserve tribal community life because it offered a cultural alternative to modernity. ... His romantic stereotyping of Indians often did not fit the reality of contemporary tribal life.\"\n\nCollier carried through the Indian New Deal with Congress' passage of the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934. It was one of the most influential and lasting pieces of legislation relating to federal Indian policy. Also known as the Wheeler–Howard Act, this legislation reversed fifty years of assimilation policies by emphasizing Indian self-determination and a return of communal Indian land, which was in direct contrast with the objectives of the Indian General Allotment Act of 1887.\n\nCollier was also responsible for getting the Johnson–O'Malley Act passed in 1934, which allowed the Secretary of the Interior to sign contracts with state governments to subsidize public schooling, medical care, and other services for Indians who did not live on reservations. The act was effective only in Minnesota.\n\nCollier's support of the Navajo Livestock Reduction program resulted in Navajo opposition to the Indian New Deal. The Indian Rights Association denounced Collier as a \"dictator\" and accused him of a \"near reign of terror\" on the Navajo reservation. According to historian Brian Dippie, \"(Collier) became an object of 'burning hatred' among the very people whose problems so preoccupied him.\"\n\nSeveral events in the late 1960s and mid-1970s (Kennedy Report, National Study of American Indian Education, Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975) led to renewed emphasis on community schools. Many large Indian boarding schools closed in the 1980s and early 1990s. In 2007, 9,500 American Indian children lived in an Indian boarding school dormitory. From 1879 when the Carlisle Indian School was founded to the present day, more than 100,000 American Indians are estimated to have attended an Indian boarding school.\n\nA similar system in Canada was known as the Canadian residential school system.\n\nWhile the concerted effort to assimilate Native Americans into American culture was abandoned officially, integration of Native American tribes and individuals continues to the present day. Often Native Americans are perceived as having been assimilated. However, some Native Americans feel a particular sense of being from another society or do not belong in a primarily \"white\" European majority society, despite efforts to socially integrate them.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, as efforts were still under way for assimilation, some studies treated American Indians simply as another ethnic minority, rather than citizens of semi-sovereign entities which they are entitled to by treaty. The following quote from the May 1957 issue of \"Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science\", shows this:\n\nSince the 1960s, however, there have been major changes in society. Included is a broader appreciation for the pluralistic nature of United States society and its many ethnic groups, as well as for the special status of Native American nations. More recent legislation to protect Native American religious practices, for instance, points to major changes in government policy. Similarly the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act of 1990 was another recognition of the special nature of Native American culture and federal responsibility to protect it.\n\nAs of 2013, \"Montana is the only state in the U.S. with a constitutional mandate to teach American Indian history, culture, and heritage to preschool through higher education students via the Indian Education for All Act.\" The \"Indian Education for All\" curriculum, created by the Montana Office of Public Instruction, is distributed online for primary and secondary schools.\n\nTo evade a shift to English, some Native American tribes have initiated language immersion schools for children, where a native Indian language is the medium of instruction. For example, the Cherokee Nation instigated a 10-year language preservation plan that involved growing new fluent speakers of the Cherokee language from childhood on up through school immersion programs as well as a collaborative community effort to continue to use the language at home. This plan was part of an ambitious goal that in 50 years, 80% or more of the Cherokee people will be fluent in the language. The Cherokee Preservation Foundation has invested $3 million into opening schools, training teachers, and developing curricula for language education, as well as initiating community gatherings where the language can be actively used. Formed in 2006, the Kituwah Preservation & Education Program (KPEP) on the Qualla Boundary focuses on language immersion programs for children from birth to fifth grade, developing cultural resources for the general public and community language programs to foster the Cherokee language among adults.\n\nThere is also a Cherokee language immersion school in Tahlequah, Oklahoma that educates students from pre-school through eighth grade. Because Oklahoma's official language is English, Cherokee immersion students are hindered when taking state-mandated tests because they have little competence in English. The Department of Education of Oklahoma said that in 2012 state tests: 11% of the school's sixth-graders showed proficiency in math, and 25% showed proficiency in reading; 31% of the seventh-graders showed proficiency in math, and 87% showed proficiency in reading; 50% of the eighth-graders showed proficiency in math, and 78% showed proficiency in reading. The Oklahoma Department of Education listed the charter school as a Targeted Intervention school, meaning the school was identified as a low-performing school but has not so that it was a Priority School. Ultimately, the school made a C, or a 2.33 grade point average on the state's A–F report card system. The report card shows the school getting an F in mathematics achievement and mathematics growth, a C in social studies achievement, a D in reading achievement, and an A in reading growth and student attendance. \"The C we made is tremendous,\" said school principal Holly Davis, \"[t]here is no English instruction in our school's younger grades, and we gave them this test in English.\" She said she had anticipated the low grade because it was the school's first year as a state-funded charter school, and many students had difficulty with English. Eighth graders who graduate from the Tahlequah immersion school are fluent speakers of the language, and they usually go on to attend Sequoyah High School where classes are taught in both English and Cherokee.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7721010", "categories": ["American culture", "United States federal Indian policy", "Cultural assimilation", "Native American topics", "Assimilation of indigenous peoples of North America"], "title": "Cultural assimilation of Native Americans"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721036", "text": "Reminisce\n\nReminisce means to recall a memory, often fondly or nostalgically.\n\nReminisce and its variants may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7721036", "categories": [], "title": "Reminisce"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721038", "text": "Jerry Sherk\n\nJerry Martin Sherk (born July 7, 1948) is a former American football defensive tackle who played for the Cleveland Browns of the National Football League (NFL) for 12 seasons between 1970 until 1981. He made the Pro Bowl lineup for four straight years from 1973 through 1976, and is widely considered to be among the best defensive players in Cleveland Browns history.\n\nJerry Sherk was born in Grants Pass, Oregon. He attended Grants Pass High, where he joined the school's wrestling and football teams.\n\nSherk attended Grays Harbor College in Aberdeen, Washington and Oklahoma State University in Stillwater, Oklahoma. During high school, he played on both the football and wrestling teams in both his junior and senior years. He was an All-Big Eight selection on the gridiron in 1969 and an All-American as a Cowboy grappler in 1969. He was inducted to the Oklahoma State Hall of Honor in 2000. He was the key to the Grays Harbor wrestling teams winning wrestling state titles two years in a row. Individually, he also won back-to-back state titles and in 1968, he pinned every opponent he faced.\n\nSherk was selected in the second round (47th overall) of the 1970 NFL draft by the Cleveland Browns. His first game was on September 21, 1970, the first regular edition of Monday Night Football. He became a starting player immediately, and soon became noted as having a knack for getting to the quarterback. Sherk was part of an AFC Central Division in which each team boasted All-Pro quality defensive tackles: the Pittsburgh Steelers' Joe Greene, the Cincinnati Bengals' Mike Reid, and the Houston Oilers' Curley Culp.\n\nHe was part of a 1972 Browns team that went 10-4 and advanced to the playoffs, losing to the undefeated Miami Dolphins. Sherk led the Browns in sacks with 10½ sacks and led teams' defensive linemen in tackles with 91, after totaling three sacks and 83 tackles in 1970 and 84 tackles with four 1/2 sacks in 1971. The following year Sherk played in his first Pro Bowl after sacking opposing quarterbacks 5½ times and making 100 tackles, most by any Brown defensive lineman that season. In 1974 Sherk made his second Pro Bowl and led the Browns with 10 sacks to go with his 94 tackles.\n\nIn 1975 Sherk made his third consecutive Pro Bowl and was named All-AFC. He matched his own career-high of 100 tackles and recorded six sacks. In 1976 Sherk recorded 12 sacks and 92 tackles and was voted the NFL Defensive Player of the Year by the Newspaper Enterprise Association (NEA). Sherk was a consensus All-Pro, making the AP, PFWA, NEA teams as well as being consensus All-AFC for the second consecutive year. November 14, 1976 he set club record with four sacks in one game. He capped the season off by playing in his fourth consecutive Pro Bowl.\n\nAt a September 1977 preseason match against the Green Bay Packers, Sherk seriously injured his knee. Consequently, he was only able to play in seven games during the 1977 season. He came back in 1978 recording a new career-high in tackles with 105 but only dropped opposing quarterbacks 3 times.\n\nDuring a November 4, 1979 game at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, an infected boil on Sherk's arm was scraped off; a staph infection from the field's Astroturf entered his body through the wound and traveled to his knee. He was nearly killed by the infection. Sherk missed the last six games of the 1979 season. His substitute on the field was Henry Bradley. The injury eventually proved to be more problematic than first imagined, and effectively sidelined him for the 1980 season, in which he played in only one game and recorded only one tackle.\n\nHe spent his final season, 1981, as a designated pass rusher, coming in to play defensive tackle when the Browns switched from a 3-4 defense to a four down lineman nickel defense. In that limited role he recorded 12 tackles and three sacks. In all, Sherk totaled 864 career tackles and 69½ sacks. Along the way, blocked 6 kicks, intercepted three passes, and recovered ten fumbles.\n\nAfter leaving football, Sherk worked as a sports photographer for roughly ten years. His work was featured in \"Sports Illustrated\", \"Pro! Magazine\", and many newspapers. His photographs from this time period were featured in an exhibition titled \"Through the Eyes of a Defensive Lineman: The Cleveland Browns as Photographed by Jerry Sherk\". The photo show was held December 14, 2010 at Baldwin Wallace College in Berea, Ohio, and was sponsored by the Cleveland Touchdown Club Charities.\n\nIn 1991 Sherk returned to college, earning a master's degree in counseling psychology. He began counseling various vulnerable populations, becoming especially interested in working with at-risk children. Along the way he created a school-based group mentoring program that uses sports to teach young people how to reach goals in academics and life.\n\nSherk resides in Encinitas, California in San Diego county, with his wife Ann.\n\n", "id": "7721038", "categories": ["American Conference Pro Bowl players", "Oklahoma State Cowboys football players", "Living people", "1948 births", "American football defensive tackles", "Sportspeople from Grants Pass, Oregon", "Cleveland Browns players"], "title": "Jerry Sherk"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721099", "text": "Guerin Austin\n\nGuerin Elizabeth Austin (; born November 30, 1980) is a television host, model and beauty queen from Bellevue, Nebraska, who has competed in the Miss USA pageant. She is currently the Boston Red Sox sideline reporter for New England Sports Network (NESN).\n\nAustin grew up in Seattle, Washington, in what she called a \"hockey family,\" and figure skated as a child. Her given name was her grandmother’s maiden name. Austin graduated \"cum laude\" with a degree in Broadcast Journalism from Oklahoma City University. She was a Congressional intern for Representative Lee Terry, received an award from the Oklahoma Broadcaster’s Association, and studied international media in London.\nAustin won the Miss Nebraska USA 2004 title in a state pageant held in October 2003. During her reign, she spoke to thousands of school children and toured the USS \"Nebraska\" submarine and Camp Pendleton. It was her second attempt at the title, as she placed as a semi-finalist in the 2002 event. Austin represented Nebraska in the Miss USA 2004 pageant but failed to place.\n\nAustin began her broadcasting career as a sports intern for KETV in Omaha, Nebraska, covering Nebraska Cornhuskers football and Omaha Mavericks men's ice hockey. In 2012, she won a Capital Emmy award for a documentary of the Washington Capitals season which she hosted. She worked as host of the \"Capitals Red Line\" program between 2010 and 2013.\n\nNESN hired Austin as a reporter in 2014. In June 2016, when the Red Sox made an extra inning comeback against the Chicago White Sox, Austin was caught in the crossfire of the team's exuberant Gatorade celebration, an incident covered by sportscasters around the United States. During the 2017 season, Austin suffered a concussion after fainting on a flight.\n\n", "id": "7721099", "categories": ["Living people", "Miss USA 2004 delegates", "Miss Nebraska USA winners", "People from Omaha, Nebraska", "1980 births"], "title": "Guerin Austin"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721104", "text": "The genus Banksia L.f. (Proteaceae)\n\nThe genus \"Banksia\" L.f. (Proteaceae) is a 1981 monograph by Alex George on the taxonomy of the plant genus \"Banksia\". Published by the Western Australian Herbarium as \"Nuytsia\" 3(3), it presented George's taxonomic arrangement of \"Banksia\", the first major taxonomic revision of the genus since George Bentham published his arrangement in \"Flora Australiensis\" in 1870.\n\nOne of the most important contributions of \"The Genus Banksia L.f. (Proteaceae)\" was the publication of ten new species and nine new varieties of \"Banksia\". These were:\nIn addition, \"B. sphaerocarpa\" var. \"glabrescens\" was redescribed as \"B. incana\", and \"B. quercifolia\" var. \"integrifolia\" was redescribed as \"B. oreophila\". \"B. collina\" was demoted to \"B. spinulosa\" var. \"collina\", and \"B. cunninghamii\" was demoted to \"B. spinulosa\" var. \"cunninghamii\".\n\nGeorge further proposed a new infrageneric classification for \"Banksia\", redefining some of the existing sections, demoting Bentham's \"B.\" sect. \"Cyrtostylis\" and \"B.\" sect. \"Orthostylis\" to \"B.\" ser. \"Cyrtostylis\" and \"B.\" ser. \"Orthostylis\" (now \"B.\" ser. \"Banksia\") respectively, and publishing six new series:\nThe classification was widely accepted, and is essentially the one that is in use today.\n\nFinally, having examined historical specimens at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew and elsewhere, George published lectotypes for most pre-existing \"Banksia\" taxa.\n", "id": "7721104", "categories": ["Banksia", "Botany books", "1981 books"], "title": "The genus Banksia L.f. (Proteaceae)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721108", "text": "No Reply\n\nNo Reply may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7721108", "categories": [], "title": "No Reply"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721112", "text": "Willie Bosket\n\nWilliam James Bosket, Jr. (born December 9, 1962) is an American convicted murderer, whose numerous crimes committed while he was still a minor led to a change in New York state law, so that juveniles as young as 13 could be tried as an adult for murder and would face the same penalties. He has been in either prison or reformatories for all but 18 months since 1971, and has spent all but 100 days of his adult life in custody. He is currently serving a sentence of 78 years to life at Five Points Correctional Facility.\n\nBosket was born in Harlem. His father, Willie Sr. (Butch), killed two people in a Milwaukee pawn shop shortly after his son was conceived and was sentenced to life in prison, where he earned a degree in computer science and psychology. Butch was released from prison and went on to get a job as a computer programmer for an aerospace company but was charged with a crime. He shot his girlfriend and committed suicide to avoid being caught.\n\nBosket's childhood was not ordinary. When his grandfather was released from prison, he raped Willie many times. When he was 9 years old, his grandfather had him perform anal sex to \"teach him about girls\". His mother, Laura, had different live-in boyfriends who beat her and, as a boy, Bosket often jumped in to defend her, in one incident hitting a man with a pipe and slashing him with a knife and in another threatening \"I'm going to burn that motherfucker up\". He also suffered a head injury when he ran out into the street, and was hit by a car. This was all before he was ten years old.\n\nWhen he was nine years old, his mother, heeding advice, petitioned he be placed in a center, stating he was \"a person in need of supervision\". He was placed at The Children's Center in Manhattan, but escaped and quickly ended up at Spofford which was a \"secure detention center\" and a child's equivalent to an adult doing time in Attica State Prison. He would be in and out of detention centers and reformatories except for a short time when he turned 21 and had served out his time for murder. \n\nHis mother had told him \"Don't be bullied... Hit back. To get respect, you've got to be the toughest.\" In the different centers, he developed a reputation for violence, upon which he prided himself. He told juvenile authorities that one day he would be a killer, just like his father.\n\nOn March 19, 1978, Bosket, then fifteen years old, shot and killed Noel Perez on a train operating on the New York City Subway's 3 train during an attempted robbery near the Harlem–148th Street terminal station. Eight days later, Bosket and another accomplice shot dead another man, Moises Perez (unrelated to his first victim) in another attempted robbery at the back of another 3 train at the 145th Street station, one station south of 148th Street. In between, Bosket and his accomplice shot a New York City Transit employee working in the Lenox Yard adjacent to the Harlem–148th Street station and committed two other armed robberies, one of them on the service.\n\nBosket was tried for the murders in New York City's family court. As the trial was underway, Bosket surprised his own lawyer by pleading guilty to both murders. He was sentenced to a maximum of five years in the Goshen Youth Facility. Although prosecutors tried to get a longer sentence, five years was the most they could get under the law, at the time.\n\nThe short length of Bosket's sentence caused a public outcry. Governor Hugh Carey had opposed efforts by his opponent in that year's gubernatorial election, State Assembly Minority Leader Perry Duryea, to have juveniles tried as adults for certain crimes. However, after reading a report on Bosket's sentence, Carey called the state legislature into special session to pass the Juvenile Offender Act of 1978. Under this act, children as young as thirteen years old could be tried in an adult court for crimes such as murder, and receive the same penalties as adults. New York was the first state to enact a law of this nature; all of the other states have since followed suit. Because it was Willie Bosket's case that was used to push laws allowing juveniles to be tried as adults, it is sometimes referred to as the Willie Bosket Law.\n\nA year after he began serving his sentence for the two murders, Bosket escaped from the youth facility. He was caught after two hours, tried as an adult for the escape and sentenced to four years in state prison. He was returned to the Division of Youth in 1979, and was released in 1983. After 100 days he was arrested when a man living in his apartment complex claimed Bosket had robbed and assaulted him. Then while awaiting trial on that crime, Bosket assaulted several court officers. He was found guilty of attempted assault for the dispute in the apartment and sentenced to seven years in prison. \n\nAt this point, his escape from the youth facility came back to haunt him. He was 16 years old at the time, meaning he was now an adult for criminal purposes. In New York, escaping from a correctional facility is a felony, even if the facility is a youth facility. If he had been convicted of assaulting the court officers, he would have been a three-time convicted felon, and under New York's habitual offender law, he was facing an automatic sentence of 25 years to life. However, he was acquitted. \n\nConvinced that he would die in prison, Bosket took out his rage on correction officers, getting into numerous altercations. Arrested for one of those incidents, he was convicted of assault and arson, and sentenced to 25 years to life. In 1989, he was sentenced to an additional 25-years-to-life sentence for stabbing corrections officer Earl Porter at the maximum-security Shawangunk Correctional Facility. After the 1988 assault, Bosket was transferred to Woodbourne Correctional Facility, where in April 1989 he drew a third 25-years-to-life sentence for assaulting a correction officer with a chain. All three sentences are consecutive. His earliest possible release date is September 16, 2062, when he will be 100 years old–all but assuring that he will die in prison.\n\nFor over a quarter-century after the 1989 assault, Bosket (NYSDOCS inmate number 84A6391) was housed at Woodbourne in solitary confinement. Although Woodbourne was nominally a medium-security prison, Bosket was housed in a specially-built plexiglass-lined cell stripped of everything but a cot and a sink/toilet combination, with four video cameras watching him at all times. He was only allowed out of his cell for one hour a day, apart from medical visits and haircuts. Although he was allowed visitors, they could only speak to him through a window in his cell. \n\nBosket once declared \"war\" on a prison system that he claimed made him a \"monster,\" and was cited for almost 250 disciplinary violations from 1985 to 1994. However, he has not had a disciplinary violation since 1994. According to a 2008 report in \"The New York Times\", due to his numerous incidents of violence during the 1980s and 1990s, he was initially not slated to move into the general population until 2046, when he will be 84 years old. Department spokesman Erik Kriss told the \"Times\", \"This guy was violent or threatening violence every day. Granted, it was awhile ago, but there are consequences for being violent in prison. We have zero tolerance for that.\"\n\nHe has since been transferred to Five Points, a maximum-security prison. Although he is still in solitary confinement, he is evaluated periodically, and due to his clean disciplinary record in recent years may join the general population sooner than 2046. \n\nIn 1995, \"New York Times\" reporter Fox Butterfield wrote \"All God's Children: The Bosket Family and the American Tradition of Violence\" (), an examination of the escalating violence and criminality in succeeding generations of the Bosket family where he described Willie Bosket's life as marred in violence and dysfunction from its beginning.\n\n", "id": "7721112", "categories": ["1978 murders in the United States", "People convicted of murder by New York (state)", "1962 births", "Living people", "American prisoners and detainees", "Criminals from New York City", "Prisoners and detainees of New York (state)", "American people convicted of murder"], "title": "Willie Bosket"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721127", "text": "Concrete Angel\n\n\"Concrete Angel\" is a song written by Stephanie Bentley and Rob Crosby, and recorded by American country music artist Martina McBride. It was released in November 2002 as the fourth and last single from McBride's \"Greatest Hits\" album. The song reached number 5 on the country music charts.\n\nThe song is a power ballad, centering on a main theme of child abuse and in a different context such as bullying. The narrator tells a story about 7-year-old named Angela Carter. Near the end is when her mother beats Angela to death. Some people, such as Angela's teacher, notice signs of abuse but attempt to ignore them.\n\nThe video was directed and produced by Deaton Flanigen. Angela Carter (played by Noel Wiggins) is the 7-year-old daughter of an abusive mother. As she is walking to school, another little girl looks at her and then laughs at her, which could imply she was also a victim of bullying. While she is at school, the teacher and her classmates ignore the bruises on her body, either because they think she just had a minor accident or they want to avoid having problems with her family. One day, a young boy (played by Luke Benward) around her age befriends her. One night, Angela and the boy are talking to each other from their bedroom windows, and her mother catches her and beats her to death-(which is shown by her mother's shadow). After the beating, police officers and an ambulance are shown at her house-(assuming that some neighbors had heard the noise and her mother had been arrested). At the funeral, Angela's grave marked as 1995-2002 is shown, surrounded by a group of people, including her school teacher and her only friend. It is implied that the boy is the ghost of a young child who was killed from being abused and then comes to her, before she passes and shows her friendship. The music video ends when the boy passes through the adults, hugs the spirit of Angela and they both run to meet a group of other abused children as they run off into the horizon. When the video was originally released, it featured the phone number for the American Child Abuse Hotline and encouraged viewers to report abuse. The music video received a nomination for a Grammy Award for Best Music Video.\n\nOn December 30, 2014, a country music station in Cincinnati played \"Concrete Angel\" and dedicated it to the memory of Leelah Alcorn, a transgender teenager who had committed suicide the night before, and urged listeners to get help if they or someone they knew was being emotionally or physically abused or had suicidal thoughts.\n\n\n\"Concrete Angel\" debuted at number 52 on the U.S. \"Billboard\" Hot Country Singles & Tracks for the week of November 30, 2002.\n", "id": "7721127", "categories": ["Martina McBride songs", "Song recordings produced by Paul Worley", "Music videos directed by Deaton-Flanigen Productions", "RCA Records Nashville singles", "Songs about child abuse", "Songs written by Stephanie Bentley", "Songs written by Rob Crosby", "2002 singles"], "title": "Concrete Angel"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721143", "text": "James Gruen\n\nJames Gruen (March 8, 1894, Michigan – March 19, 1967, Woodland Hills, Los Angeles, California) was a Hollywood screenwriter.\n\nJames Gruen was married to actress Beatrice Van and they had one child together: Kreigh Vander-Pluym (born in 1912).\n\n", "id": "7721143", "categories": ["People from the Greater Los Angeles Area", "1967 deaths", "Film directors from California", "Film directors from Michigan", "Screenwriters from Michigan", "1894 births", "American male screenwriters"], "title": "James Gruen"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721147", "text": "Padi, Chennai\n\nPadi is a locality and neighbourhood in Chennai, formerly Madras. It was named after Nayanmars, Especially Sundarar, (Tamil saints) came to Padi and sang songs in the Lord Shiva Temple (Tiruvalleeswarar Temple). Padi exactly 13 km from Chennai FORT is a suburb of Chennai, India. M.T.H Road (Madras Thiruvallur High Road) now unofficially known as CTH Road (Chennai Thiruvallur High Road) passes through Padi. Padi is basically an industrial area and Good infrastructure and convenient living conditions have made this place popular among the working class. Arulmigu Thiruvalithayam Temple in Padi is one of the famous Guru Bhagawan temples in Chennai. This temple is under the control of Hindu Aranilayathurai. Every year Thai Kirthigai is one of the big festival in Padi. Another famous temple is the Padavattamman Temple. These temples are important landmarks in Padi.\n\nOn 4 October 2013, the Tamil Nadu Highways department issued a GO extending the entire stretch of the road till Tirutani to 6 lanes at a cost of 1,680 million, by means of land acquisition from 12 villages. In the first phase, the road will be widened to 100 ft (4 lanes) with center median at a cost of 980 million.\n\nTiruvaleeswarar temple is located at about 1/2 km inside from the Avadi main road. A popular poet Thirungyana Sambandar has composed hymns at this temple. The east tower has 3 tiers and acts as the main entrance to the temple. Inside the main entrance, there is broad inner courtyard on all the four sides of the main shrine. A garden along the walls of outer corridor decorates the temple. Entering the inner mandapam, the main sanctum sanctorum of Lord Shiva is situated. The sanctum is semi-circular in shape at the back. This type of architecture is called Gaja Brishta Vimana or Thoonganai Maadam in Tamil as this resembles the back of a sleeping elephant. The main deity is known as Tiruvalleeswarar. To the right of him is the shrine for the female deity Jagathambikai. \nOn the 4 walls of the inner corridor encircling the main sanctum sanctorum, there are sculptured images of Sun God, Balasubramania, Vinayagar, Dakshinamoorthy, Mahavishnu, Brahma, Durgai, etc. There are separate shrines inside the temple for Somaskandar, Murugan with his consorts Valli and Deivanai, Anjaneyar and Meenakshi Sundareswarar. There is also a sivalingam supposed to have been worshipped by Sage Bharadwaj Maharishi. The pillars in this temple have beautifully carved images of Hindu Gods, Natarajar, Murugan, Kothandaramar, Machavathara Moorthy, Koormavadhara Moorthy etc. \nAccording to mythology, Lord Brahma's two daughters Kamali and Valli wished to marry Lord Shiva. Knowing that their wish is very difficult to be fulfilled, Lord Brahma sent them to worship Lord Shiva on the banks of river Paalaru. Shiva, being pleased with their penance, appeared before them and told them that it is not possible for them to marry him as he is already married to Parvathi and advised them to marry Lord Ganapathy. Accordingly, they married Lord Ganapathy, who was returning after conquering the demon king Gajamukasuran.\n\nLucas TVS,\nWheels India,\nSundaram Fasteners,\nSundaram Clayton,\nBrakes India, and\nBritannia Industries are some of the popular industries in this area. These industries provide major employment to people living in Padi and nearby areas, such as Korattur, Ambattur, Mogapair, Anna Nagar, Thirumangalam, Villivakkam, Kolathur, and ICF.\n\nThere are also a few BPO companies operating from this area.\n\nThe Ambit IT Park, Price Info Park, Kochar and HCL Compaines are located Ambattur Industrial Estate. \n\nRetail giant of chennai saravana stores recently opened a 10-storey store opposite to TVS Lucas.\n\nThe nearest Railway Station is at Korattur and Villivakkam.\n\nPolice Station - Korattur.\n\nPadi railway station connects Villivakkam and Anna Nagar East railway station.\n", "id": "7721147", "categories": [], "title": "Padi, Chennai"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721157", "text": "Jesse Flores\n\nJesse Sandoval Flores (November 2, 1914 – December 17, 1991) was a Major League Baseball pitcher. The , right-hander was a native of Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico. He played for the Chicago Cubs (1942), Philadelphia Athletics (1943–47), and Cleveland Indians (1950).\n\nFlores was originally signed by the Cubs as an amateur free agent before the 1938 season. He was a starting pitcher in almost two-thirds of his major league appearances. In 1943, he won a career-high 12 games for Philadelphia with a 3.11 earned run average and finished in a tie for 27th place in the American League MVP voting. In 1946, he was 9–7, his only winning record, and had the fifth-best ERA in the league (2.32).\n\nFlores did most of his pitching for Philadelphia, one of the worst teams in the league at the time. In five seasons there (1943–1947), he won 41 and lost 55, yet had a fine ERA of 3.15. His winning percentage during that span was .427. Meanwhile, the A's won 300 games and lost 466 for a winning percentage of .392.\n\nCareer totals include a record of 44-59 in 176 games pitched, 113 games started, 46 complete games, 11 shutouts, 39 games finished, 6 saves, and an ERA of 3.18 in 973 innings pitched.\n\nAfter his playing career ended, Flores was a longtime area scout for the Minnesota Twins in Southern California; he is credited with signing Baseball Hall of Fame pitcher Bert Blyleven. Flores died in 1991 in Orange, California. Two sons, Jesse Jr. and Steve, are MLB scouts.\n\n", "id": "7721157", "categories": ["Minnesota Twins scouts", "Major League Baseball players from Mexico", "Cleveland Indians players", "American baseball players of Mexican descent", "Los Angeles Angels (minor league) players", "California Angels scouts", "Oakland Oaks (baseball) players", "1991 deaths", "Bisbee Bees players", "Sacramento Solons players", "Baseball players from Jalisco", "1914 births", "Major League Baseball pitchers", "Major League Baseball scouts", "Chicago Cubs players", "Modesto Reds players", "Philadelphia Athletics players", "Portland Beavers players"], "title": "Jesse Flores"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721179", "text": "Laika (dog breed)\n\nLaika () is a type of hunting dog of Northern Russia and Russian Siberia, and is a generic name for several breeds. \"Laika\" is also the given name for the mongrel who was the first dog in space.\n\nFédération Cynologique Internationale uses the word \"Laika\" in the names of three standard breeds: Russian European Laika (FCI standard No. 304), West Siberian Laika (FCI 306), and East Siberian Laika (FCI 305), which had been bred from the aboriginal dogs of northern Russia and Siberia.\n\nThe Yakutian Laika is a multi-purpose laika breed from the Sakha Republic, used both in bird and seal hunting, reindeer herding, and sled pulling. However, nowadays it is solely a sled dog. So far it has been officially recognized in Russia, Estonia, Belarus, Ukraine, Czech Republic, Nordic Countries, and Brazil. In the US, it has been accepted to the Foundation Stock Service by the American Kennel Club.\n\nThe Northeastern Hauling Laika is a sled dog from East Siberia. It is not known as a \"laika\" breed in its original country of Russia, but rather as the \"Northeastern Sled Dog\" (\"severo-vostochnaya jesdovaya sobaka\"), so in its case the term \"laika\" is simply in international or western use. It is typically 58 to 69 cms at height, weighing 34 to 50 kg, and its coat can occur in any colour.It is currently unrecognized, even in Russia.\n\nThe Nenets Herding Laika, also known as the Reindeer Herding Laika or Olenegonka is a close relative of the Samoyed - therefore also been called the \"Samoyed Laika\" - bred by Nenets people. It is used as a reindeer herding dog in northeastern Europe and West Siberia. Unlike the Samoyed, it has different colour variations, such as white, red, brown, sable, grey, black and piebald. It is officially recognized in Russia and Estonia.\n\nThe Karelo-Finnish Laika, not listed in the FCI nomenclature, was a small Russian hunting dog, with the first standard published in Leningrad in 1936 by the Russian Kennel Federation. It was a close relative of the Finnish Spitz, as both breeds were bred from similar native dog populations. In 2006, the Russian Kennel Federation and the Finnish Kennel Club decided to merge the Karelo-Finnish Laika and the Finnish Spitz together as only one breed (the Finnish Spitz). This helped to improve the gene pool of both the Russian and Finnish populations.\n\nOther hunting Laika breeds or local variations that have been mentioned in international bibliographies include:\n\nThe Russian word \"laika\" () is a noun derived from the verb \"layat\"\" (, to bark), and literally means \"barker\". As the name of a dog variety, it is used in Russian cynological literature (not only in Russian, but sometimes in English as well) to refer to all\nvarieties of hunting dogs traditionally kept by the peoples of the northern Russia and adjacent areas. This includes not only the three or four breeds known as Laikas in English, but also other standard breeds that the FCI classifies together with them as \"Nordic Hunting Dogs\" (Group 5, Section 2 of the FCI classification).\n\nThus, the Norwegian Elkhound (FCI 242 and 268) is known in Russian literature as \"Norwegian Elk Laika\" (норвежская лосиная лайка), and the Finnish Spitz (FCI 49) as \"Finnish Bird Laika\" (финская птичья лайка).\n\nIn Russia the word \"laika\" is sometimes used less strictly, to refer not only to hunting dogs but also to the related sled dog breeds of the tundra belt, which the FCI classifies as \"Nordic Sledge Dogs\". The Samoyed may be occasionally referred to as the \"Samoyed Laika\" (Самоедская лайка) - however, this name also refers to the nationally recognized (in the Russian Kennel Federation) Nenets Herding Laika.\n\nAs the Spitz are a very ancient dog type, many smaller types of Spitz resemble each other. Medium to small sized breeds similar in appearance from various places in the world include the Wolfsspitz (Keeshond), Großspitz, Mittelspitz, Kleinspitz, Zwergspitz (Pomeranian), Samoyed (dog), Schipperke, Norwegian Elkhound, Volpino Italiano (Italian Spitz), Finnish Spitz, Indian Spitz and Japanese Spitz.\n\nTypes of German Spitz\n\nRelated breeds\n\nNote: The following dog breeds are very similar to each other, but are not the same.\n\n", "id": "7721179", "categories": ["Dog breeds"], "title": "Laika (dog breed)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721185", "text": "Norman Day\n\nDr Norman Kingwell Day (born 25 March 1947, in Melbourne, Australia) is an architect, educator, and writer.\n\nHe has designed and built in Australia and Asia, notably in Melbourne, Canberra, Dili, East Timor and in Vietnam (Ho Chi Minh City and Can Tho). He worked with Robin Boyd and Professor Frederick Romberg before starting his own practice in 1971, now with offices located in Melbourne, Ho Chi Minh City, Bangkok and Dili.\n\nHis architecture is contemporary and investigative, it seeks to provide long-life-term constructions which last over time rather than short-term solutions which satisfy a culture of ‘architecture as a commodity’.\n\nBuildings include public and private housing and educational facilities in and around Melbourne, health buildings, institutional, new and restored.\n\nHis Major commissions include Mowbray College (Melton), Australian and New Zealand College of Anaesthetists Headquarters\n(Melbourne), RMIT International University, Vietnam (Ho Chi Minh City) and Can Tho University Learning Resource Center (Can Tho City, Vietnam) and Embassy for East Timor (Canberra).Since 2000, he has been involved in consulting the new nation of East Timor consulting on the reconstruction of the country with projects including the Xanana Gusmão Reading Room/ Library (Dili), Hotel dom Aleixo (Dili)and schemes for empowerment training. He is a Board Member of \"Architects Without Frontiers\". Design submissions have been made for a design proposal for the new Assembly and Ba Dinh Hall (Hanoi), an urban design competition for Thu Thiem district (HCMC), Australian Centre for Contemporary Art (Melbourne), MOMA at Heide, West Kowloon Redevelopment (Hong Kong) and National Trade Union Headquarters (Singapore).\n\nHe is an Adjunct Professor of Architecture at the RMIT University which also awarded him an honorary Doctorate of Architecture. During the period 1976 to 2002 he was Lecturer and Design Coordinator Theory, History, Communications Department of Architecture, Faculty of Design and Environmental Construction, RMIT University (Melbourne).\nHe has lectured also at the University of Western Australia Perth, School of Art and Design, RMIT at Bundoora, University of New South Wales (Sydney), School of Architecture, University of Melbourne. Department of\nArchitecture (with Professor Susana Torre), Columbia University, New York, Lecturer Council of Adult Education, Monash University (Melbourne),Swinburne Technical College (Melbourne), and Deakin University (Geelong).\n\nDay's titles are: Doctor of Architecture (\"Honoris Causa\", RMIT), Adjunct Professor of Architecture (RMIT), M Arch (RMIT), B Arch (Melb), ARB (Vic),\n\nXXX Exhibition, 30 Years of Architecture – Norman Day, RMIT Gallery, Melbourne. 2001\nModels Inc. Architects + Industry (Curator: Val Austin) A + I Gallery, Melbourne. 1996\nWorld - Wide - Work : Architecture by Fax CURVE, Tolarno Gallery, Melbourne. 1995\n\"Fin de Siecle? : and the Sydney twenty - first century: Architectures of Melbourne\", Clapin Burdett Gallery. Sydney. 1993\n\" Fin de Siecle ? Melbourne - and the twenty-first century \" RMIT. Melbourne. 1992 \nAustralian Mythos Sydney - Reflection on an Unfinished Journey. 1988\nNeo-Classicism ? Monash University + Power Institute (Sydney and Melbourne).1986\nTwo x Two '86: Artists + Architects: George Paton Gallery (Melbourne).1986 (Exhibition partner Julie Brown-Rrap )\nArchitecture as Idea, RMIT Gallery, Melbourne. 1984\nNext Wave, Canberra. 1981\nFour Melbourne Architects , Powell Street Gallery, Melbourne, with Edmond Corrigan, Greg Burgess , Peter Crone 1979\n\nProfessional awards include:\nRAIA-Bates Smart Award for Architecture in the Media.\nFinalist Award Robin Boyd Award House of the Year\nRAIA (National) : For Outstanding Architecture.\nSeven Royal Australian Institute of Architects Awards. \nLustig + Moar - RAIA Architecture Prize.\nBELLE magazine \"House of the Year\" 1990.\nHousing Industry of Australia, House of the Year Award (Best Use of Steel).\nThe Australian Business award 2005 for \"Business Innovation\", Australian Chamber of Commerce (AUSCHAM) – Fosters Vietnam Ltd.\nExcellence in Construction - National Building and Construction Awards,Commercial Building, National Award Master Builders Association of Australia.\nExcellence in Construction - Commercial Building\nVictorian State Award Master Builders Association of Victoria.\nAustralian Government Award for valued contribution as a volunteer working in East Timor (Timor Leste).\nCity of Port Phillip Design + Development Awards (Australian and New Zealand College of Anaesthetists) – best contribution to achieving sustainable development.\n\nHe was first employed as architecture critic for \"The Age\" (Melbourne) in 1976, and has supplied critique for the Australian Broadcasting Commission (Radio and TV), and previously for the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" and \"The Sunday Age\" (Melbourne).\n\nArticles have been published world-wide including - \"National Times\" (Melbourne), (Editor) \"Architecture Australia\" magazine (National), (Editor) \"Architect Magazine\", \"DOMUS\" (Italy), \"Studio International\" (London), \"International Architecture\" (London), \"Aujourd Hui\" (Paris), \"Monument Magazine\" (Sydney), \"Transition Magazine\" (Melbourne), \"Australian Art Review\" (Sydney), \"Express Magazine\" (New York), \"Meanjin\" (Melbourne) and \"Melbourne University\" Magazine (Melbourne).\n\n\n\"Monash Biographical Dictionary of 20th Century Australia\", Reed Reference Publishing 1994\nEssay Melbourne Architecture - Aardvark\nBiography - Aardvark\nRRR Podcast\n\n", "id": "7721185", "categories": ["Victorian (Australia) architects", "RMIT University alumni", "RMIT University faculty", "Architects from Melbourne", "Living people"], "title": "Norman Day"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721192", "text": "This Scarecrow Needs a Flame\n\nThis Scarecrow Needs a Flame is an EP by post-hardcore group Four Letter Lie. It was recorded at Glow In The Dark Studios with producer Matt Goldman, who has done other post-hardcore bands such as Underoath. It was released on November 18, 2005. Both of songs on this release were rerecorded for their full-length album \"Let Your Body Take Over\" (2006). \"The Ordinary Life\" stays true to the original, but \"Lets Call It A Night\" was changed slightly and renamed \"Baby, You're My Bad Habit\".\n\nThe drumming on these recordings was not done by their current drummer Derek Smith. This was recorded during multiple member changes of several Twin Cities bands. The drums on this recording were done by Jason Grietens of The Semester.\n\n", "id": "7721192", "categories": ["Four Letter Lie albums", "2005 EPs"], "title": "This Scarecrow Needs a Flame"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721207", "text": "Kim Staelens\n\nKim Staelens (born 7 January 1982 in Kortrijk, Belgium) is a Dutch professional volleyball player last under contract at Romanian team Ştiinţa Bacău. Her older sister Chaïne is also a Dutch international volleyball player. Their father Jean-Pierre played many international matches for the Belgium national volleyball team. Staelens speaks Dutch, English, French and German. Kim Staelens plays as a setter and is able to spike at 305 cm, while she is capable of blocking at 301 cm.\n\nBorn in Belgium both Staelens sisters were known to be talented players and decided to acquire for Dutch citizenship because they did not see enough future in the Belgian team. As their mother is Dutch both were welcomed in The Netherlands and became national team regulars shortly after. So far she has played 154 international matches for the Dutch team. Staelens was part of the Dutch squad for the 2006 World Championship where the placed 8th. She was also part of the team during the 2007 Boris Yeltsin Cup in Yekaterinburg where the Dutch won the silver medal after losing the final to China (3–1).\n\n\nAt the age of 15 Staelens decided to join her sister and play abroad in the Netherlands. Before that she played mainly in the reserve teams in the Belgian First division. As being only 15 years old she was having a hard time keeping up with her team mates during her first season in The Netherlands at Bonduelle WC. She moved to VC weert and during her second season at the club in 1999 she captured her first two prizes, winning both the Dutch league and the cup.\n\nIn 2000, she moved to France to play for Marcq en Baroeul, where she struggled to find her place in the team. She however decided to stay in France, but moved to another team. Also at USSPA Albi she was unable to become a key player and to get used to the French lifestyle. She then found her way to Germany where she signed a contract with USC Munster.\n\nIn Munster things went better for herself which also resulted in better results. During her first season she did not capture any prizes but Munster finished in both the German league and cup in second position. One year later they showed their potential and were able to win both competitions. Staelens was at that time still part of the Munster team, however she did miss the crucial part of the season due to a knee injury.\n\nThis knee injury prevented her from playing volleyball during the 2004 and 2005 seasons and she was recovering from her injury in a sports clinic in Zeist. For a long time it was unsure whether she was able to return to her top level. As soon as she was able to play in the later part of 2005 she was however immediately being called up for the national squad and participated in several tournaments. Like most of her fellow national squad members and coach Avital Selinger she decided to sign a contract with HCC/net Martinus Amstelveen to be part of a unique project on their way to the 2008 Summer Olympics. It was not much of a surprise that Martinus captured both the Dutch league title as they Dutch cup in that year.\n\nIn 2012, she returned to the national team after a break.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7721207", "categories": ["Dutch women's volleyball players", "1982 births", "Dutch expatriates in Romania", "Expatriate volleyball players in Germany", "Belgian women's volleyball players", "Expatriate volleyball players in Romania", "Living people", "Sportspeople from Kortrijk", "Dutch expatriates in France", "Expatriate volleyball players in France", "Dutch expatriate sportspeople in Romania", "Expatriate volleyball players in Poland", "Setters"], "title": "Kim Staelens"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721232", "text": "K21JQ-D\n\nK21JQ-D is a low-power Class A television station in Walla Walla, Washington, broadcasting locally in digital on UHF channel 21 as an affiliate of Esperanza TV.\n\nIn 2009, the former-K22BI terminated analog service when its owners, Blue Mountain Broadcasting Association, transitioned to digital television. Esperanza TV is now seen on digital channels 21.2, 31.2 and 36.2.\n", "id": "7721232", "categories": ["Walla Walla, Washington", "Television stations in Washington (state)", "Digital low-power stations", "Religious television stations in the United States", "Television channels and stations established in 1991"], "title": "K21JQ-D"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721236", "text": "Maraimalai Nagar\n\nMaraimalai Nagar is a town of Kanchipuram District, near Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India. It is a municipality town in Kanchipuram district. It lies in the southern part of the Chennai metropolitan area around 50 km from downtown Chennai Egmore and about 15 km from Vandalur. Maraimalar Nagar is a part of the Chengalpattu taulk in Kanchipuram district. It is a satellite town developed by the CMDA in 1980. Many heavy industries are located in Maraimalai Nagar. The Ford India and BMW car factories are located within a mile from Maraimalai Nagar and the Indian software giant Infosys also has an office within eight kilometers of Maraimalai Nagar. SRM University has its main campus in the neighbouring Potheri. As of 2011, Maraimalai Nagar had a population of 81,872.\n\nThe neighbourhood is served by the Maraimalai Nagar railway station of the Chennai Suburban Railway Network.\n\nMaraimalai Nagar Municipality comprises Kattankulathur, Potheri, Thailavaram, Vallanchery, Thirukatchur, Kalivandhapattu, Kadambur, Koodalur and Peramanur villages and was constituted as Third grade Municipality in 2004. In 2010, it is upgraded as Special Grade Municipality. The town is divided into 21 wards. The extent of Municipal Area is 58.08 km. Maraimalai Nagar is also very near to Oragadam - a new investment destination near Chennai.\n\nMaraimalai Nagar is the headquarters town of Maraimalai Nagar in Kancheepuram district. Maraimalai Nagar Satellite Town was developed by CMDA and it is located in the south direction at a distance of 45 km from Chennai City Centre. It is situated at 12'41'30\" latitude and 74'58'00\" longitude and 28m elevated from M.S.L.\n\nMaraimalai Nagar has the location advantage in terms of transportation net work. The town is well connected by rail and road, Chennai - Dindigul National Highway No.45 passes through the Town. Chennai-Trichy Broad-gauge railway lines passes through the town.\n\nAcharapakkam Town and Melmaruvathur Temple town lies 20 km and 15 km south of the Town.\n\nMaraimalai Nagar has a railway station, bus stand, upgraded primary health care [GOVNT], telephone exchange, electricity office, post office, police station and higher secondary schools. The suburb is close to SRM University and its group of institutions: (Valliammai Engineering College, SRM School of Management, SRM Medical College, SRM Hospital, Valliammai Polytechnic, SRM Polytechnic, SRM Institute of Hotel Management, SRM Arts and Science, SRM Pharmacy) which are located in Potheri, 2 kilometres (1.2 mi) from Guduvancheri. It is becoming the largest residential area between Chennai Tambaram and Chengalpet kanchipuram because of the IT companies in and around Maraimalai Nagar like Accenture, Ford, Mahindra World City and SEZ.\n\nAccording to 2011 census, Maraimalai Nagar had a population of 81,872 with a sex-ratio of 953 females for every 1,000 males, much above the national average of 929. A total of 8,821 were under the age of six, constituting 4,555 males and 4,266 females. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes accounted for 18.54% and .45% of the population respectively. The average literacy of the city was 78.67%, compared to the national average of 72.99%. The city had a total of 19,970 households. There were a total of 31,926 workers, comprising 329 cultivators, 732 main agricultural labourers, 853 in house hold industries, 25,637 other workers, 4,375 marginal workers, 71 marginal cultivators, 191 marginal agricultural labourers, 164 marginal workers in household industries and 3,949 other marginal workers. As per the religious census of 2011, Maraimalainagar (M) had 90.27% Hindus, 3.58% Muslims, 5.6% Christians, 0.1% Sikhs, 0.04% Buddhists, 0.07% Jains, 0.32% following other religions and 0.02% following no religion or did not indicate any religious preference.\n\n777.83 Hectares of Lands are Cultivated in Maraimalai Nagar Area Main Crops Cultivated in this area are Paddy, Sugarcane, Groundnut, raggi, etc., Water sources for irrigation: Palar River water source and Local sources\n\nMaraimalai Nagar is well connected with other parts of the Chennai city by road and the Chennai Suburban Railway Network, it is also good connectivity with Chengalpattu through road and rail.\n", "id": "7721236", "categories": [], "title": "Maraimalai Nagar"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721262", "text": "A. L. Williams\n\nA. L. Williams may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7721262", "categories": [], "title": "A. L. Williams"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721263", "text": "Abdulrahman Ibrahim\n\nAbdulrahman Ibrahim (born 9 November 1974) is a former Emirati footballer. He played as center-back and was considered one of the best defenders in the UAE League. He was one the favourite defenders to be selected for the different U.A.E. national teams (Youth, Olympic and Men).\n\nIbrahim is always remembered by all UAE football fans for his remarkable long-range golden goal against Iraq in the quarterfinals of the 1996 AFC Asian Cup held in the UAE.\n", "id": "7721263", "categories": ["Footballers at the 1998 Asian Games", "1974 births", "Ajman Club players", "Al-Shaab players", "Association football defenders", "Living people", "Emirati footballers", "UAE Pro-League players"], "title": "Abdulrahman Ibrahim"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721274", "text": "Kolhar\n\nKolhar may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7721274", "categories": [], "title": "Kolhar"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721290", "text": "Joseph Collins (neurologist)\n\nJoseph Collins (1866–1950) was an American neurologist, born in Brookfield, Conn. He received the degree of M.D. from New York University in 1888, and after some years of private practice took up the specialty of neurology; in 1907, he was made a professor of that subject in the New York Post-Graduate Medical School. He was later a co-founder and visiting physician to the New York Neurological Institute.\n\nIn addition to his attainment as a practitioner of medicine, Dr. Collins wrote books and other literature. He is notable as the man who first reviewed James Joyce's novel Ulysses for the New York Times. His major writings, medical and secular, are: \n\n", "id": "7721290", "categories": ["1950 deaths", "People from Brookfield, Connecticut", "Physicians from New York City", "Scientists from New York (state)", "New York University School of Medicine alumni", "1866 births", "American neurologists", "American science writers"], "title": "Joseph Collins (neurologist)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721296", "text": "Dhabihu'llah Mahrami\n\nDhabihu'llah Mahrami (1946 – 15 December 2005) (also Zabihullah Mahrami) was an Iranian Bahá'í who was charged with apostasy from Islam and jailed in Iran. After 10 years in prison he was found dead in his cell.\nMr. Mahrami was a former Iranian civil servant who lost his job after the government found that he was a Bahá'í. Adherents of the Bahá'í Faith are persecuted in the Islamic Republic and are denied employment. On August 16, 1995, Mr. Mahrami was called before the Islamic Revolutionary Court in Yazd, and was questioned about his adherence to the Bahá'í Faith. During the next few months the court met with Mr. Mahrami multiple times and tried to persuade him to renounce his beliefs. Upon his repeated refusal, Mr. Mahrami was charged with apostasy, and on January 2, 1996 was sentenced to death. His properties and assets were also confiscated. \n\nAlthough Mr. Mahrami was a lifelong Bahá'í, the apostasy charge apparently came about because a sympathetic Muslim colleague, in an effort to prevent Mr. Mahrami from losing his job, stated that Mr. Mahrami had converted to Islam. \nMr. Mahrami's lawyer appealed to the Supreme Court of Iran; on January 28, 1997 the Supreme Court of Iran confirmed the death sentence and the news was conveyed orally to his relatives. In March 2000, following an international outcry, Mr. Mahrami's sentence was commuted to life in prison. Since that time until his death, Mr. Mahrami had been in a government prison in Yazd and was forced to perform arduous physical labour and had received death threats. After 10 years in prison he was found dead in his cell. The government informed his family that he had died of a heart attack, but Mr. Mahrami was reported to have been in good health shortly before his death.\n\nAfter his death, organizations, including Amnesty International and the United States government, called on Iran to order a thorough investigation into his death and allow freedom of religion for all Iranians.\n\n", "id": "7721296", "categories": ["2005 deaths", "21st-century Bahá'ís", "1946 births", "People charged with apostasy in Iran", "Iranian people who died in prison custody", "Prisoners who died in Iranian detention", "Amnesty International prisoners of conscience held by Iran", "Iranian Bahá'ís"], "title": "Dhabihu'llah Mahrami"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721320", "text": "Ivan Ackery\n\nIvan Ackery (October 30, 1899 – October 29, 1989) was a movie theatre manager and entertainment promoter in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was the manager of Vancouver's Orpheum Theatre during its peak period from the 1930s to the 1960s.\n\nBorn and raised in Bristol, England, Ackery moved to Canada in 1914, arriving in Montreal and going from there to Vancouver. After serving in Europe with the Canadian Army during World War I, Ackery returned to Vancouver to further his education before moving in 1920 to Calgary, Alberta, beginning his long career in the entertainment industry as an usher at the Capitol Theatre, then the flagship of Famous Players' Calgary operations, in 1921.\n\nAfter returning to Vancouver in 1923, Ackery became an usher at that city's Capitol Theatre before his promotion to manager of the Victoria Theatre in south Vancouver in 1927. It was during his tenure there that Ackery began developing the promotional ideas that he would use in cinema management for the next four decades.\n\nAckery was then promoted to manage the Dominion Theatre in downtown Vancouver in 1930, then was sent to Victoria to manage the Capitol Theatre there in 1932. While at the Victoria Capitol, Ackery introduced and promoted monthly midnight movies on Sundays, during a period when local bylaws prohibited Sunday movies, then persuaded Famous Players to allow him to play a Victoria-filmed feature at the Capitol called \"Crimson Paradise\", which drew packed houses during its run thanks to heavy promotion by Ackery. Saturday afternoon children's matinees also were begun and became popular at the Capitol during Ackery's tenure.\n\nIn 1934, Ackery returned to Vancouver when Famous Players promoted him to manage the Strand Theatre (located on the future site of Vancouver Centre in the downtown area), where he promoted live stage shows and popular British films. He was subsequently promoted to become the manager of the Orpheum in the summer of 1935.\n\nFaced with both the Great Depression and competition from other Famous Players theatres and locally owned independent cinemas, Ackery set out to present major-release feature films and live shows featuring popular acts of the day at the Orpheum.\n\nUnder Ackery, the theatre, the largest movie house in Vancouver at the time, was frequently picked to show movie premieres in Canada, often world or Canadian premieres (such as 1939's \"Gone with the Wind\", 1942's \"The Forest Rangers\" [in which one of that movie's stars, Susan Hayward, appeared in person for the world premiere at the Orpheum], and the 1965 James Clavell World War II feature \"King Rat\"). Live shows at the Orpheum during the Ackery years featured performing greats like Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington, Lionel Hampton, Ella Fitzgerald, Tommy Dorsey, George Burns, Jack Benny and Chief Dan George.\n\nAckery would win several promotional awards during his Orpheum years, most notably the Quigley Award (awarded by the \"Motion Picture Herald\" trade publication to movie promoters who were judged to have delivered outstanding movie promotion campaigns) in 1947 and 1952.\n\nAckery, then aged 69, retired as manager of the Orpheum in 1969 after Famous Players introduced a new clause requiring mandatory retirement for its employees at age 65. Despite retirement, he carried on in public life in Vancouver, most notably spearheading the campaign to save the Orpheum when, in 1973, Famous Players announced plans to have the palatial cinema gutted and turned into a multiplex (a fate which would later befall the nearby Capitol, also FP-owned). Thanks to Ackery's efforts, which included contributions by Vancouver city council and other entities and several benefit concerts (including an engagement by Jack Benny), the city bought the Orpheum on March 19, 1974. The theatre showed its final movie, \"Return to Macon County\", on November 23, 1975, then was renovated over the next year and reopened on April 2, 1977 as the new home of the Vancouver Symphony Orchestra.\n\nAckery wrote his autobiography on his years with Famous Players and in theatre management and promotion, \"Fifty Years on Theatre Row\", which was published in 1980. He died on October 29, 1989, in West Vancouver, British Columbia, one day shy of his 90th birthday.\n\n", "id": "7721320", "categories": ["1899 births", "People from Bristol", "English emigrants to Canada", "1989 deaths"], "title": "Ivan Ackery"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721333", "text": "Axle Whitehead\n\nAxle Whitehead (16 December 1980 in Melbourne, Australia) is an Australian TV host, singer, musician, and actor. He was a host on \"Video Hits\". In 2008, he released his first studio album \"Losing Sleep\" which debuted outside the ARIA top 50. He also played Liam Murphy in Channel Seven's \"Home and Away\" and was the host of \"The World's Strictest Parents\". In 2015, Whitehead began playing the role of Davis, a musician, in the Showtime series, \"Shameless\". He formerly hosted game show \"The Wall\".\n\nIn 1999 Whitehead was accepted into the Victorian College of the Arts to study Jazz Improvisation, then toured Australia and China with various bands.\nHe was originally a contestant on the first series of \"Australian Idol\" in 2003. He failed to win the competition but made it into the top twenty. After being spotted on Idol, he was hired to host the television music show, \"Video Hits\" on Network Ten, hosting from 2004 to 1 November 2006. He traveled the world interviewing artists such as Beyonce, Justin Timberlake, Oasis and Duran Duran.\n\nWhitehead's debut single \"I Don't Do Surprises\" was released on radio during January 2008, debuting at #8 on the ARIA Charts in Australia on 17 March 2008. He composed a song with modern day classical artist, Cupcakke, called \"Squidward Nose\", also reaching No.1 of Australian ITunes charts. It has also received airplay on Nova radio and surfaced on TV advertisements for popular Channel 10 shows House and Women's Murder Club, and Channel 7's Home and Away, being described as a cross between Coldplay and Robbie Williams. His debut album, \"Losing Sleep\" was mixed by UK mixer, David Treahearn and released through Roadshow Music on 22 August 2008. Whitehead made his return to Video Hits on 24 February 2008, and to Australian Idol on 5 September 2008, though only as a guest to promote his debut album. The third single off \"Losing Sleep\", Satellite has received significant play on Channel V and Video Hits.\n\nWhitehead has also become the face of upmarket clothing brand 'Marcs'. His image has appeared on buses and print advertisements for the summer/autumn campaign.\n\nWhitehead also served as a student teacher at a midwest Indiana school, teaching the trumpet to poor, untalented kids. They miss him dearly.\n\nWhitehead's first acting roles were minor parts in the television series \"The Secret Life of Us\", and the 2003 film, \"Ned Kelly\". After taking acting lessons for eighteen months, Whitehead auditioned for a role in \"Home and Away\", which he described as \"such a great place to learn and hone your skills\". He joined the cast for fifteen episodes as rocker Liam Murphy, and later signed to be a regular cast member. Whitehead based his portrayal of the rocker on experiences of close friends, and said \"you have to find a balance between putting yourself into it and not being too cheeky.\"\n\nWhitehead hosted Seven Network's \"The World's Strictest Parents\". In 2010, Whitehead was short-listed to host \"The X Factor Australia\", but lost out to fellow \"Home and Away\" colleague Luke Jacobz.\n\nWhitehead departed \"Home and Away\" in late 2012 to expand his acting career. He filmed his final scenes along with colleague Luke Mitchell (Romeo Smith). Whitehead moved to Los Angeles. After 18 months as an out of work actor, he landed a role in season 5 of the series \"Shameless\". He played an Australian rock singer named Davis, a love interest of Fiona Gallagher (Emmy Rossum). He appeared in the first 4 episodes of season 5 and a brief appearance in episode 8.\n\nIn 2014, Whitehead was the runner-up for the Heath Ledger scholarship. In 2016, he played James Slade / Hellfire, a recurring role in \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\". This role reunited him with \"Home and Away\" star Luke Mitchell.\n\nIn 2017, Whitehead began hosting Australian game show \"The Wall\", which is based on the U.S. show of the same name.\n\nOn 22 April 2009, Whitehead was announced Cleo Bachelor of the Year, beating competition from sportsmen, actors and other personalities. Sarah Oakes, Cleo Editor-in-chief denied the claims that Whitehead won as a direct result of a self-marketing ploy; \"[He] is that perfect combination of good looks, charm, charisma and the kind of guy you'd be really happy to take home and introduce to your mum.\" \n\nIn October 2006, Whitehead was sacked as TV presenter of Video Hits after exposing himself on stage during the ARIA music awards. Axle was onstage to present an award to Aussie hiphop band The Hilltop Hoods when he exposed himself and simulated masturbation on the trophy, though it wasn't aired on TV.\n\nWhitehead rose to prominence after competing in the third round on the first season of \"Australian Idol\" in 2003. His debut extended play, \"The Axle Whitehead Band\", was released as a collaboration in 2003 with jazz fusion band, the Axle Whitehead Band (feat. Steve Sedergreen, piano & keys). The release failed to rank on national charts. Whitehead released his debut studio album, \"Losing Sleep\", in 2008 on Roadshow Music. The album peaked at number 68 on the Australian Top 100 Albums Chart. The lead single \"I Don't Do Surprises\" debuted at number eight on the Australian Top 100 Singles Chart and received gold certification by the Australian Recording Industry Association. The album's subsequent singles \"Anywhere\" and \"Satellite\" did not make it into the Top 50.\n\n", "id": "7721333", "categories": ["Australian Idol participants", "Australian game show hosts", "1980 births", "Australian male singers", "Living people", "Australian male television actors", "21st-century Australian singers", "Australian alternative rock musicians"], "title": "Axle Whitehead"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721338", "text": "Bevan Griggs\n\nBevan Barry John Griggs (born 29 March 1978) is a New Zealand cricketer who played for Central Districts. In his 83 first-class cricket matches he has taken 245 dismissals for Central Districts, a CD record. Bevan also plays for United cricket club in Palmerston North. He was born in Palmerston North. He scored 3155 runs from 130 innings of 83 matches.\n\nHe has also played for NZ 'A'.\n\nGriggs is now working for ANZ Bank in Melbourne. \n", "id": "7721338", "categories": ["1979 births", "Central Districts cricketers", "People educated at Palmerston North Boys' High School", "New Zealand cricketers", "Living people", "Cricketers from Palmerston North"], "title": "Bevan Griggs"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721352", "text": "WWCN\n\nWWCN is a commercial radio station located in Fort Myers Beach, Florida, broadcasting to the Fort Myers area on 99.3 FM. WWCN airs a sports talk format branded as \"99.3 FM ESPN\"; until 2012, it was an alternative rock radio station, although the active rock flip was confirmed following the flip of sister station WRXK-FM to talk radio. Every December, the station hosted a concert called the \"99Xmas Ball\".\n\nOn June 20, 2013, the then-WJBX took over sister station WWCN's ESPN sports radio programming, with the rock format moving to sister station WRXK.\n\n", "id": "7721352", "categories": ["Radio stations in Florida", "1983 establishments in Florida", "Beasley Broadcast Group radio stations", "Radio stations established in 1983", "Sports radio stations in the United States", "ESPN Radio stations"], "title": "WWCN"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721353", "text": "Simla, West Bengal\n\nSimla is a census town in Chinsurah Mogra CD Block in Chinsurah subdivision of Hooghly district in the Indian state of West Bengal. It is a part of Kolkata Urban Agglomeration.\n\nSimla is located at .\n\nThe area is composed of flat alluvial plains that form a part of the Gangetic Delta. The high west bank of the tidal Hooghly River is highly industrialised.\n\nKeota, Manushpur, Naldanga, Kodalia, Kulihanda, Dharmapur and Simla form a cluster of census towns on the eastern side of Hugli-Chuchura.\n\nThere are 13 statutory towns and 64 census towns in Hooghly district. The right bank of the Hooghly River has been industrialised over a long period. With the leading European powers dominating the area's industry, trade and commerce for over two centuries, it is amongst the leading industrialised areas in the state. At the same time the land is fertile and agricultural production is significant.\n\nIn Chinsurah subdivision 68.63% of the population is rural and the urban population is 31.37%. It has 2 statutory and 23 census towns. In Chinsurah Mogra CD Block 64.87% of the population is urban and 35.13% is rural. Amongst the four remaining CD Blocks in the subdivision two were overwhelmingly rural and two were wholly rural.\n\nThe map alongside shows a portion of Chinsurah subdivision. All places marked in the map are linked in the larger full screen map.\n\nAs per 2011 Census of India Simla had a total population of 15,998 of which 7,941 (50%) were males and 8,047 (50%) were females. Population below 6 years was 1,299. The total number of literates in Simla was 12,552 (85.39% of the population over 6 years).\n\nAs of the 2001 Indian census, Simla had a population of 13,632. Males constituted 51% of the population and females 49%. Simla had an average literacy rate of 72%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy was 77%, and female literacy was 67%. In Simla, 10% of the population was under 6 years of age.\n\nThe following Municipalities and Census Towns in Hooghly district were part of Kolkata Urban Agglomeration in 2011 census: Bansberia (M), Hugli-Chinsurah (M), Bara Khejuria (Out Growth), Shankhanagar (CT), Amodghata (CT), Chak Bansberia (CT), Naldanga (CT), Kodalia (CT), Kulihanda (CT), Simla (CT), Dharmapur (CT), Bhadreswar (M), Champdani (M), Chandannagar (M Corp.), Baidyabati (M), Serampore (M), Rishra (M), Rishra (CT), Bamunari (CT), Dakshin Rajyadharpur (CT), Nabagram Colony (CT), Konnagar (M), Uttarpara Kotrung (M), Raghunathpur (PS-Dankuni) (CT), Kanaipur (CT) and Keota (CT).\n", "id": "7721353", "categories": ["Neighbourhoods in Kolkata", "Cities and towns in Hooghly district"], "title": "Simla, West Bengal"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721356", "text": "Trestka coat of arms\n\nTrestka is a Polish coat of arms. It was used by several szlachta families in the times of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nNotable bearers of this coat of arms include:\n\n\n", "id": "7721356", "categories": ["Polish coats of arms"], "title": "Trestka coat of arms"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721358", "text": "Charles William Wilson\n\nMajor-General Sir Charles William Wilson, KCB, KCMG, FRS (14 March 1836 – 25 October 1905) was a British Army officer, geographer and archaeologist.\n\nHe was born in Liverpool on 14 March 1836. He was educated at the Liverpool Collegiate School and Cheltenham College. He attended the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich and was commissioned as an officer in the Royal Engineers in 1855.\n\nHis first appointment was as secretary to the British Boundary Commission in 1858, whose duty it was to map the 49th parallel between the Rocky Mountains and the Pacific Ocean. He spent four years in North America, during which time he documented his travels in a diary, the transcription of which can be found in \"Mapping the Frontier\" edited by George F. G. Stanley.\n\nIn 1864 he worked on the Ordnance Survey of Jerusalem where he identified the eponymous Wilson's Arch.\n\nHe was appointed to the Ordnance Survey of Scotland in 1867.\n\nIn 1867 he joined the Palestine Exploration Fund and had a leading role in the Survey of Western Palestine project. In 1868 he joined the Ordnance Survey of Sinai. In 1872 he was elected to the Society of British Archaeology. In 1874 he became a Fellow of the Royal Society.\n\nHe became director of the topographical department at the British War Office and assistant quartermaster-general in the British Intelligence Department. In 1876 he received an Order of the Bath. He then headed the Ordnance Survey of Ireland.\n\nFrom 1879 to 1882, he was consul-general in Anatolia. In the summer of 1882, he took part in Garnet Wolseley's expedition to put down the rebellion of Colonel 'Urabi.\n\nFrom 1884 to 1885, Wilson took part in the Khartoum Relief Expedition, commanded by Garnet Wolseley. He was part of the advance rescue force led by Sir Herbert Stewart. After Stewart was mortally wounded Brigadier-General Wilson took command of this group of about 1,400 men. On two Nile steamers Wilson's Desert Column reached Khartoum in the afternoon of 28 January 1885. It came two days too late: Khartoum had been seized by the Mahdists in the early hours of 26 January. Between 5,000 and 10,000 inhabitants were slaughtered, among them Major-General Charles George Gordon.\n\nHe was appointed director of the Ordnance Survey in Ireland and was director-general from 1886 to 1894. From 1895 until his retirement in 1898, he served as the director-general of military education.\n\nHe served director of the Palestine Pilgrims' Text Society, then chairman of the Palestine Exploration Fund from 1901 until his death in 1905.\n\nHe died on 25 October 1905.\n\n", "id": "7721358", "categories": ["1836 births", "19th-century cartographers", "British Army personnel of the Mahdist War", "British Army generals", "English topographers", "Royal Engineers officers", "19th-century British diplomats", "Cartographers of the Middle East", "People from Liverpool", "Knights Commander of the Order of the Bath", "1905 deaths", "British diplomats", "Holy Land archaeologists", "English cartographers", "Fellows of the Royal Society"], "title": "Charles William Wilson"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721366", "text": "Blind Man (Aerosmith song)\n\n\"Blind Man\" is a song by American hard rock band Aerosmith. It was written by Steven Tyler, Joe Perry, and Taylor Rhodes. It was released as a single in November 1994 from the Geffen-era compilation album \"Big Ones\", one of three songs from that greatest hits record not previously released on any Aerosmith studio album, which was also released in November (see 1994 in music).\n\nDespite the song's moderate success, the band hardly ever performed it live after the 1993-1994 Get a Grip Tour.\n\nThe song was recorded at two separate sessions, the first session took place at Power Station, New York City in April 1994, and was engineered by Adam Kasper with second engineering by Chris Albert. The second session took place at Capri Digital Studios, Capri, Italy in June, and was also engineered by Adam Kasper, but the second engineer on that session was Max Carola.\nThe video for the song was also one of the only songs from Aerosmith's Geffen era not released on the video collection \"Big Ones You Can Look At\". The live performance portions of the video were filmed during the day at The Summit in Houston, Texas before Aerosmith's performance there on September 30, 1994. The video was directed by Marty Callner, and featured cameo appearances by Pamela Anderson and A&R man John Kalodner.\n\nIn 2009, drummer Joey Kramer admitted on \"That Metal Show\" that this is his least favorite Aerosmith video.\n", "id": "7721366", "categories": ["Songs written by Steven Tyler", "Geffen Records singles", "Music videos directed by Marty Callner", "Songs written by Taylor Rhodes", "1994 singles", "Songs written by Joe Perry (musician)", "1994 songs", "Aerosmith songs"], "title": "Blind Man (Aerosmith song)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721367", "text": "Moonachie School District\n\nThe Moonachie Public Schools is a community public school district that serves students in pre-kindergarten through eighth grade from Moonachie, in Bergen County, New Jersey, United States.\n\nAs of the 2014-15 school year, the district and its one school had an enrollment of 402 students and 29.4 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 13.7:1.\n\nThe district is classified by the New Jersey Department of Education as being in District Factor Group \"B\", the second lowest of eight groupings. District Factor Groups organize districts statewide to allow comparison by common socioeconomic characteristics of the local districts. From lowest socioeconomic status to highest, the categories are A, B, CD, DE, FG, GH, I and J.\n\nFor ninth through twelfth grades, approximately 100 public school students attend Wood-Ridge High School in Wood-Ridge, as part of a sending/receiving relationship with the Wood-Ridge School District. As of the 2014-15 school year, the high school had an enrollment of 373 students and 44.7 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 8.3:1.\n\nStudents in PreK-8 attend the Robert L. Craig School which served 285 students (based on 2014-15 enrollment data from the National Center for Education Statistics).\n\nCore members of the district's administration are:\n\n", "id": "7721367", "categories": ["Moonachie, New Jersey", "New Jersey District Factor Group B"], "title": "Moonachie School District"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721402", "text": "John Moyr Smith\n\nJohn Moyr Smith (12 March 1839 – 1 December 1912) was a British artist and designer, noted for his work on ceramic tiles.\n\nSmith was born in Glasgow. An example of his work is the interior of the Great Hall of the former Holloway Sanatorium, now in Virginia Park, an exclusive housing development near Virginia Water, Surrey, England.\n\n", "id": "7721402", "categories": ["British designers", "1912 deaths", "1839 births", "British ceramists"], "title": "John Moyr Smith"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721419", "text": "List of top-division football clubs in AFC countries\n\nThis is a list of top-division football clubs in Asian Football Confederation countries. The Asian Football Confederation (AFC) includes all Asian countries except Armenia, Azerbaijan, Cyprus, Georgia, Israel, Kazakhstan and Turkey as members, but also includes the Oceanian countries of Australia, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands (the association of the Northern Mariana Islands is a provisional associate member of AFC but not a member of FIFA).\n\nThe football associations of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Cyprus, Georgia, Israel, Kazakhstan and Turkey are members of UEFA, the European football confederation (Israel and Kazakhstan were previously AFC members but had left). Hong Kong and Macau, the special administrative regions of the China, have their own football associations which are members of AFC. Taiwan (called Chinese Taipei in the international sports community) and Palestine, both members of the IOC but not the UN, also have their own football associations which are members of AFC.\n\nEach of the AFC member countries have their own football league systems. The clubs playing in each top-level league compete for the title as the country's club champions, and also for places in next season's AFC club competitions, i.e., the AFC Champions League, the AFC Cup, and the AFC President's Cup. Due to promotion and relegation, the clubs playing in the top-level league are different every season; however, some league systems (such as Australia) do not have promotion and relegation.\n\nThe champions of the previous season in each country are listed in bold.\n\n\"Please note\": Some clubs play in a national football league other than their own country's. Where this is the case the club is noted as such. In particular, the Australian A-League includes a team from New Zealand, whose national federation is a member of the Oceania Football Confederation.\n\n\n\"As of 2018 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2018–19 A-League season:\"\n\n\"As of 2018–19 W-League season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2016–17 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2018-19 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2018 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2016 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2019 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2017 season:\"\n\nSee Chinese Taipei for the naming issue.\n\n\n\"As of 2015–16 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2016 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2016–17 season:\"\n\n\"As of 2016–17 season:\"\n\n\n<section begin=map />\n<section end=map />\n\n\n\n\"As of 2019 season:\"\n\n\"As of 2018–19 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2016–17 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2019 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2016–17 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2007 season:\"\n\n\"As of 2017 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2016–17 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2016 season:\"\n\n\"As of 2016 season:\"\n\n\"As of 2016–17 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2016 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2019 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2016 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2018 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2017 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2015 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2010 season\"\n\n\n\"As of 2016–17 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2018–19 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2018–19 season:\"\n\"As of 2017–18 season\"\n\n\n\"As of the 2019 PPL season:\"\n\n\"As of the 2018 PFFWL season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2016–17 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2016–17 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2017 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2018–19 season:\"\n\n\"As of 2016–17 season:\"\n\n\"As of 2017 season:\"\n\n\"As of 2017 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2018 season:\"\n\n\"As of 2018–19 season:\"\n\n\"As of 2017 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2017 season:\"\n\n\n\"As of 2013–14 season:\"\n\n", "id": "7721419", "categories": ["Lists of association football clubs"], "title": "List of top-division football clubs in AFC countries"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721421", "text": "Derwent Valley Railway (Tasmania)\n\nThe Derwent Valley Railway is a heritage railway in Tasmania, Australia. It operates from New Norfolk. It is 3' 6\" narrow gauge.\n\nTasmanian Government Railways opened the Derwent Valley Line in 1886. Initially, it ran from the junction at Bridgewater, on the main north-south Hobart to Devonport line, to New Norfolk, a distance of 18 kilometres. It was extended to 29 km at Plenty in 1887, and then to 41 km at Glenora in 1888. It closely follows the course of the River Derwent for the first 39 km as far as Coniston, and crosses the river at three different points.\n\nThe following years saw a number of plans to extend the line further up the Derwent Valley or to connect it to the West Coast. Finally, twenty one years later, in 1909, it was extended along the Tyenna River, another 8 km to what is now Westerway. In 1917 another extension was added to extend the railway to Fitzgerald (66 km), and a final extension was opened in 1936 to Kallista, 74 km from Bridgewater. The last extension replaced an earlier wooden tramway on the same alignment. The primary usage of the line was to provide a service to the rural areas and the logging areas around Kallista. In 1940 there was a significant increase in log traffic along most of the line with the opening of a paper mill at Boyer, 14 km from Bridgewater. This increased traffic resulted in the construction of two deviations and additional facilities at a number of stations.\n\nSometime later, parts of the railway began to close. Firstly, the logging branches around Kallista, and then the section from Kallista to Florentine Junction were closed. In 1995, TasRail completely closed the line beyond New Norfolk after floods and heavy rain substantially damaged the track.\n\nIn 1990, Derwent Valley Railway Preservation Society was formed. It\npurchased the assets of the Tasmanian Locomotive Company, who had been operating excursion trains on the line. The Society established its operating base at New Norfolk, although initially operating out of the Hobart suburb of Claremont. It continued operating passenger trains on the line to Maydena. The Derwent Valley Line was closed beyond New Norfolk in 1995, and so the Society operated to other destinations. Although the line remained under Tasrail ownership, in 1999 the line was reopened by the society to Hayes, then in 2000 to Westerway and then to National Park in 2003 (37 km from New Norfolk). The society now trades as Derwent Valley Railway Inc. The Society now has 11 locomotives (4 steam, 4 diesel-electric, 1 diesel-hydraulic and 2 diesel-mechanical), 9 carriages, and 11 wagons.\n\nTwo of Tasrail's freight services regularly used the section from Bridgewater to the Norske Skog paper mill at Boyer, carrying paper to Burnie for export, and the other supplying the plant with coal and timber from the north of the State.\n\nIn October 2005, Pacific National, who had taken over commercial running of the TasRail network, closed the Derwent Valley Line west of New Norfolk. This effectively stopped the running of the heritage railway. In May 2006, Pacific National came to a new agreement with the Tasmanian Government which included returning all tracks and rail lands to Government ownership.\n\nDerwent Valley Railway Inc. are currently in negotiations to regain access to the Derwent Valley Line to restore it to its former glory and operate it as a world class tourist railway.\n\n\n", "id": "7721421", "categories": ["Railway lines closed in 2005", "Railway lines opened in 1886", "Heritage railways in Australia", "Railway lines in Tasmania", "3 ft 6 in gauge railways in Australia", "1886 establishments in Australia", "2005 disestablishments in Australia", "Museums in Tasmania"], "title": "Derwent Valley Railway (Tasmania)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721436", "text": "Her Escape\n\nHer Escape is a post-hardcore EP by Four Letter Lie. It was independently released on May 29, 2005 and sold over 1,500 copies.\n\n\"Tell Me About Everything\" was rerecorded for their Full-Length \"Let Your Body Take Over\". The entire song was redone musically and structurally.\n", "id": "7721436", "categories": ["Four Letter Lie albums", "2006 EPs"], "title": "Her Escape"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721437", "text": "Walk on Water (Aerosmith song)\n\n\"Walk On Water\" is a song by American hard rock band Aerosmith. It was written by Steven Tyler, Joe Perry, Jack Blades, and Tommy Shaw. It was released in 1995 as the second single from 1994's \"Big Ones\", a compilation album featuring 12 of Aerosmith's biggest hits from the Geffen-era, which included two new songs.\n\nThe song's lyrical style, content and sound is in the vein of such songs as \"Shut up and Dance\", which was also written with the assistance of Blades/Shaw. It also features notable harmonica playing by Tyler, as well as dueling lead guitar parts, and a strong backbeat.\n\nIt reached #16 on the Mainstream Rock Tracks chart and #11 in Latvia.\n\nA music video was produced to promote the single.\n\nThis song was included in the 1995 video game Quest For Fame.\n\n", "id": "7721437", "categories": ["Songs written by Jack Blades", "Songs written by Steven Tyler", "Geffen Records singles", "1995 singles", "1995 songs", "Songs written by Tommy Shaw", "Songs written by Joe Perry (musician)", "Aerosmith songs"], "title": "Walk on Water (Aerosmith song)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721438", "text": "Cieleski coat of arms\n\nCieleski is a Polish coat of arms. It was used by several szlachta families in the times of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. A variation of the Trestka coat of arms.\n\nNotable bearers of this coat of arms include:\n\n\n", "id": "7721438", "categories": ["Polish coats of arms"], "title": "Cieleski coat of arms"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721448", "text": "Celebrity Circus (Australian TV series)\n\nCelebrity Circus was an Australian reality television series which aired in May 2005 on the Nine Network. The show took celebrities and, with the help of Silvers Circus, trained them into circus acts. In the final show, the celebrities performed in front of a live crowd and showcased what they had learned. It was shown over five one-hour episodes and was hosted by Bud Tingwell. The various skills in the show were high-wire, flying trapeze, knife throwing, fire juggling and clowning. Some of the performers were also trained in two events called the Human Cannon and the Wheel of Death.\n\nThe participants were: actors Cameron Daddo and Kimberley Davies; former \"Home and Away\" star Dieter Brummer; \"Celebrity Big Brother\" winner Dylan Lewis; \"Australia's Funniest Home Video Show\" host Toni Pearen; Vadim Dale (from \"Outback Jack\") and his fiance, Natalie Franzman; Olympic beach volleyball gold medallist Kerri Pottharst; and Ricki-Lee Coulter from \"Australian Idol\". The first episode, which aired on 1 May, was placed in the top ten of the ratings for that week.\n\nThe series appeared in the Portugal on TVI in 2006 as \"Circo das Celebridades\". On 11 June 2008 an American version began airing on NBC.\n", "id": "7721448", "categories": ["Nine Network shows", "Australian reality television series", "Circus television programs", "2005 Australian television series debuts", "2000s Australian television series", "2005 Australian television series endings"], "title": "Celebrity Circus (Australian TV series)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721453", "text": "Nakashima Station\n\nNakashima Station features one side platform handling one bidirectional track. It has a small waiting room with two bench seats. There is a unisex pit toilet next to the waiting room. The platform is unmanned, but features an automated ticket machine. The ticket gate accepts ICOCA passes as well as traditional tickets. Tickets for Nakashima are discarded in a box hanging next to the automated ticket machine. Improvements to raise the height and pitch of the platform and make improvements to the wheelchair ramp leading to the platform were completed in November 2012. An area for parking bicycles and two-wheeled vehicles is located on the far side of the station.\n\n\n", "id": "7721453", "categories": ["Stations of West Japan Railway Company in Hiroshima city", "Kabe Line", "Railway stations opened in 1911", "Railway stations closed in 1943", "Hiroshima City Network"], "title": "Nakashima Station"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721490", "text": "Immigration to South Korea\n\nAlthough immigration to South Korea is low due to strict immigration policies, it is on the rise. As of 2016, foreign residents accounted for 3.4% of the total population.\n\nMost immigrants are not eligible for citizenship or even permanent residency, unless they are married to a South Korean citizen or have invested more than US$500,000 in the local economy. An exception is made for those whose non-financial contribution to the nation has been specifically recognized by the Minister of Justice, and for holders of a business visa who have invested more than US$500,000.\n\nNationalities of legal foreign residents, who are mostly temporary workers, in South Korea as of December 2017.\nImmigration policy is overseen by the Ministry of Justice through the Korea Immigration Service. Related ministries include: Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Health and Welfare, and Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade.\n\nThe Nationality Act, Immigration Control Act, Multicultural Families Support the Act, and Framework Act on Treatment of Foreigners are the foundation of immigration policy in Korea.\n\nThe government of Korea initiated a discussion whether to establish independent Immigration Office to accommodate fast-growing immigration and to prepare inclusive and rational immigration policies, from 2003, without progress. The Foreigner Policy Committee headed by the Prime Minister is responsible for coordinating policies concerning foreigners, which had formerly been handled by multiple ministries. However, its role is limited due to a shortage of resources and manpower. Establishing an Immigration Office is expected to solve these problems by concentrating all the related resources and manpower under one umbrella.\n\nAccording to the UN Recommendations on Statistics of International Migration (revised in 1998), long-term international immigration is recorded after an individual enters a country and establishes his usual place of residence there for more than a year. So, When Korea government build new policies, immigrant laborers and children of illegal migrants should be counted to follow this guideline.\n\nThe Republic of Korea is a signatory to the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees. The Korean government is the competent authority to determine refugee status in Korea.\n\nKorea used to be a migrant-source country, sending farmers, miners, nurses, and workers to the United States, Germany, and the Middle East. The Korean diaspora numbers 6.82 million as of 2009, including 2.34 million in China and 2.1 million in the United States, a slight decline of 220,000 since 2007.\nKorea experienced government-initiated rapid economic growth from the 1970s on, which has been called the \"Miracle on the Han River\". Until the end of the 1980s, Korea was able to sustain its development without foreign laborers because it had enough cheap labor. In the 1990s, however, Korea's plummeting birth rate and growing cost of labor caused labor shortages especially in the so-called \"3D jobs\" (for \"dirty, dangerous, and difficult\").\nEconomic development and urbanization led many people to leave rural areas and move to the city in search of jobs and better living conditions. However, according to Confucian norms, the eldest son must remain in the countryside with his parents. A chronic shortage of marriageable women arose in rural areas, and international marriages began to fill this unmet demand. Most international marriage cases are handled by dating service companies that earn a commission.\n\nMany migrant workers live in Korea, particularly in the industrial suburbs of Gyeonggi Province such as Siheung and Ansan, where foreigners account for 7.6% of the population. The largest number of migrants come from China; out of a total of 55,154 D-3 visa holders in 2005, 17,787 were from China. Other migrants come from South and Southeast Asia.\n\nIn the 21st century, binational marriages in South Korea have grown rapidly and foreign spouses have become highly diverse today. The number of countries represented by foreign husbands and wives has increased from 88 countries in 2001 to 143 countries in 2015.\n\nIn the 1990s, many brides from neighboring Asian nations such as China and Vietnam have originally immigrated to farming communities in South Korea's countryside. Since the 2000s, the trend spread nationwide and diversified to include all women in East and Southeast Asia and Nepal. For example, in 2001 there were 5,700 Japanese wives married to Korean men living in South Korea - Their immigration to Korea more than doubled to 11,631 in 2015.\n\nForeign husbands have also increased significantly. In 2001, there were only 967 foreign husbands living in South Korea. In 2015, 2433 American, 1218 Japanese and 1109 Canadian husbands had settled in the country, along with many from a diverse number of European nations. Korean women have also married significantly more South Asian men from countries such as Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka or India than Korean men marrying women from these countries. This was also true for African men, such as those from Nigeria, who have visited Korea more often than others. Many husbands from these countries have settled in the country after coming to Korea originally for work experience or study.\n\nKorean men married significantly more women from Post-Soviet states such as Russia, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Belarus than vice versa, since many brides from these nations are ethnically Korean.\n\nHowever, other Asians immigrating to the country to marry Koreans have been consistently declining since 2007, while Western husbands and wives settling in the country with Koreans instead have been consistently rising in the same period.\n\nForeign husbands and wives married to Koreans living in South Korea as of 2017\nIn 2007 the UN declared Korea an official receiving country. The number of foreigners in South Korea grew from 390,000 in 1997 to 1 million in 2007. Among these are 630,000 temporary laborers, as well as 100,000 foreigners married to South Korean nationals. Furthermore, there are 230,000 illegal immigrants.\n\nMain sending countries are Asian countries, such as China, Vietnam, Mongolia, the Philippines, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. However, migrants also come from Nigeria, Ghana, Russia, and the United States.\n\nFrom June 14, 1998, those who have at least one Korean parent are automatically granted Korean nationality from birth, regardless of their decisions on whether to choose the nationality of the foreign parent or the country of birth (if born outside Korea).\n\nRequirements for General Naturalization include:\nThe South Korean Government says it wants to create a multicultural society and foreigner-friendly environment.\n\nAs described in the new national plan for immigration policy, the government claims a world-class Korea welcoming of foreigners. However, critics argue that the government's goals and policies are fundamentally discriminatory. In response, the South Korean government introduced new regulations in April 2014, which meant foreign spouses would have to pass a Korean-language proficiency test and earn a minimum wage of $14,000.\n\nSince 1991 Korea has experienced a large influx of foreign workers. Approximately 10,000 Asian workers came to Korea under a newly established trainee program in 1992. In June 1996, there were 57,000 trainees in Korea. Despite its growth, the trainee program also had problems—namely that the trainees became undocumented workers due to wage differentials, and that they were not protected by the Labor Standard Law as they were not considered laborers.\n\nSince 2004, the Korean government has followed the \"Employment Permit Program\" for foreigners, the product of a decade of interaction between Korean citizens and foreign migrant workers. Legally, foreigners are allowed to enter mainly to fulfill low-wage jobs, and they are excluded from receiving social services. Public opinion data shows that Korean citizens retain a discriminatory attitude towards foreign workers.\n\nThere are many reports from legal and illegal immigrants which have jailed in many prisons in South Korea because of small problems or misunderstanding their visas for long time. Also, there are some reports about beating and abusing the prisoners. South Korea immigration also forced them to buy the deportation ticket.\n\nForeign brides and their multicultural children are growing into a major political issue. Sending countries are likely to worry about their immigrants due to deep-rooted discrimination against foreigners in Korea. Now, most immigration into Korea comes from Southeast Asia, and immigrant treatment, particularly if there is abuse of foreign brides, is likely to provoke not only domestic problems, but also diplomatic tension. What immigration there has been, is frequently so focused on the birth-rate problem that it is more properly called bride-importing than immigration.\nThe terms \"kosian\" or \"onnurian\" refer to a person of mixed heritage, most commonly applied to children of a South Korean father and a Southeast Asian mother. The term \"Kosian\" was coined in 1997 by intercultural families to refer to themselves, but its use spread in the early 2000s as international marriages became increasingly common in rural areas. It is considered offensive by some who prefer to identify simply as Korean.\n\n\n", "id": "7721490", "categories": ["Demographics of South Korea", "Immigration to South Korea"], "title": "Immigration to South Korea"}
