{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725231", "text": "Camp Gilbert H. Johnson\n\nCamp Gilbert H. Johnson is a satellite camp of Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune in Jacksonville, North Carolina and home to the Marine Corps Combat Service Support Schools (MCCSSS), where various support military occupational specialties such as administration, supply, logistics, finance, and motor transport maintenance are trained. Camp Johnson is situated on Montford Point, the site of recruit training for the first African Americans to serve in the Marine Corps, known as \"Montford Point Marines\".\n\nThe purpose of the camp is to conduct formal resident training for officers and enlisted personnel in the occupational fields of logistics, motor transport, personnel administration, supply, and financial management ( accounting and disbursing), as well as to conduct instructional management and combat water survival swim training. In addition to training Marines, Camp Johnson also houses the Field Medical Training Battalion, which trains corpsmen and religious program specialists of the Navy. The commanding officer of MCCSSS also serves as the area commander of Camp Johnson, and provides administrative support to various tenant commands.\n\nWhen Franklin D. Roosevelt signed Executive Order 8802, blacks were, for the first time, permitted to join the Marine Corps. One of the first African Americans to enlist in the United States Marine Corps was Gilbert \"Hashmark\" Johnson, who became a drill instructor. Between 1942 and 1949, the camp at Montford Point was a recruit depot for black recruits, training 20,000 African Americans during that period.\n\nIn 1948, by Executive Order 9981, President Harry S. Truman ordered the military to integrate. In 1974, Montford Point was renamed Camp Gilbert H. Johnson in honor of the late Sergeant Major Gilbert H. \"Hashmark\" Johnson. A Montford Point drill instructor, he served during World War II and the Korean War. Camp Johnson became the home of the Marine Corps Combat Service Support Schools.\n\nIn 2007, a documentary entitled \"The Montford Point Marine Project\" was released, honoring the black Marines who trained at Montford Point.\n\nCamp Johnson is home to the Montford Point Marines Museum. The museum is located in the East Wing of building M101. The museum houses items and pictures of the camp during its years as a boot camp.\n\nOutside the gate of Camp Johnson stands a tribute to Marines, soldiers and sailors who gave their lives trying to keep the peace in Lebanon. The Beirut Memorial is the site of an annual commemoration of the October 1983 Beirut barracks bombing, when 241 Marines, sailors, and soldiers were killed.\n\nThis area is also home to a \"9/11\" memorial, and a Vietnam War memorial. The \"9/11\" memorial features a beam salvaged from the tower wreckage. The memorial area is well maintained and is used for many ceremonies, from promotions to retirements. The recently built Vietnam Memorial consists of many thick glass panes erected from the ground in a circular shape. Each pane of glass is etched with the names of all the service men and women who gave their lives during the Vietnam war. In the center of the memorial is a large water fountain.\n\nDirectly across the street is the North Carolina Veterans Cemetery. This cemetery is the resting place to many of Marine veterans. Funerals with \"Military Honors\" are done on site. Funeral details are provided by the personnel of MCCSSS, Camp Johnson, and neighboring units.\n\n\n", "id": "7725231", "categories": ["Jacksonville, North Carolina", "Buildings and structures in Onslow County, North Carolina", "Military installations in North Carolina"], "title": "Camp Gilbert H. Johnson"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725236", "text": "The Anniversary (1968 film)\n\nThe Anniversary is a 1968 British black comedy film directed by Roy Ward Baker for Hammer Films and Seven Arts. The screenplay, by Jimmy Sangster, was adapted from Bill MacIlwraith's 1966 play. \n\nOne-eyed Mrs. Taggart is an emasculating woman whose husband, a successful building contractor, has been dead for ten years. Joining her for the traditional annual celebration of her wedding anniversary are her three sons: eldest Henry is a transvestite; middle son Terry is planning to emigrate to Canada with his shrewish wife Karen and their five children; and youngest Tom, a promiscuous philanderer whose many past relationships have ended at his mother's insistence, arrives with his pregnant girlfriend Shirley in tow. Throughout the day and evening, the domineering, evil, vindictive, manipulative matriarch does everything in her power to remind her children who controls the family finances and ultimately their futures.\n\n\nThe play was first produced in the West End with Mona Washbourne as Mrs. Taggart. Bette Davis initially turned down the role in the screen adaptation, but after Jimmy Sangster, who had scripted her earlier film \"The Nanny\" (1965), rewrote the screenplay, she agreed to play the role. Sheila Hancock, Jack Hedley, and James Cossins were signed to reprise the roles they had played in the stage production. Original director Alvin Rakoff was replaced a week into filming after he clashed with Davis, who felt he \"didn't have the first fundamental knowledge of making a motion picture, let alone what an actor was all about\". Rakoff, an award-winning director who had steered quite a few actors to acclaimed performances (Laurence Olivier, Peter Sellers, etc.) countered: \"Not the most rational woman one can meet. But a great screen actress. She didn’t want a director. She wanted someone enthralled to her. Initially I was. But eventually... Talk of my making her subservient to the camera is nonsense. The script remained a wordy stage play hardly the best basis for a film. My removal was a mixture of regret and pleasure.\"\n\nDavis was required to wear self-adhesive eye patches for her role, which not only proved to be a constant irritant, but affected her equilibrium as well.\nSheila Hancock knew Davis had wanted Jill Bennett to replace her, but Bennett wasn't available. The concept of the Hollywood star system was foreign to Hancock, a veteran of the English Stage Company at the Royal Court Theatre, and she resented the fawning attention paid to Davis based on her past successes. When everyone on the lot arrived to watch the star film her first scene, Hancock was \"dumbfounded ... It took me a while to realize this was the way Bette Davis was used to operating. She was a queen, after all.\"\n\nThe film was shot at the Elstree Studios in Hertfordshire. Its estimated budget was $1,450,000. It grossed $1,352,000 in the US.\n\nThe British premiere was held at the Rialto cinema in London on the 11th of February 1968. \n\nIn her review in \"The New York Times\", Renata Adler said the film \"is not a distinguished example of the Terrifying Older Actress Filicidal Mummy genre, but it isn't too heavy. And the genre isn't that distinguished after all.\"\n\n\"TV Guide\" rates it three out of a possible four stars and comments, \"Davis is great, but the film suffers from the staginess of the play on which it was based.\"\nAccording to Fox records the film required $1,450,000 in rentals to break even and made $1,352,000 so made a small loss.\n\n", "id": "7725236", "categories": ["British films", "British comedy films", "Films shot at Elstree Studios", "Films set in England", "Films shot at Pinewood Studios", "Films directed by Roy Ward Baker", "1960s comedy films", "Films about dysfunctional families", "British films based on plays", "British black comedy films", "1960s LGBT-related films", "1968 films", "English-language films"], "title": "The Anniversary (1968 film)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725244", "text": "Claude Bazin de Bezons\n\nClaude Bazin de Bezons (; 1617 – 20 March 1684) was a French lawyer, politician, and second holder of l'Académie française, seat 1.\n\nBazin de Bezons was born in Paris, France. His grandfather, Claude Bazin, married Marie Chanterel in 1580 and was knighted by Louis XIII in 1611, giving him the Lordship of Bezons.\n\nClaude Bazin de Bezons eventually became an attorney at the \"Grand Conseil\", a high French court put in place to rule on contentious legal matters. In 1643, he was elected member of the Académie française, and eventually became its oldest member.\n\nHe served as the \"intendant\" (royal administrative head) of justice, police, and finance in Soissons, and then Languedoc from 1654 to 1674, during which he was also commissioned to direct the reorganization of the universities of Toulouse and Montpellier. After returning to Paris, he was named to the \"Conseil d'État\" (Council of State).\n\nHe only left a few brief written works, including some speeches and rants, as well as a translation of the Peace of Prague between Ferdinand II and the Prince-Elector of Saxony in 1635.\n\nClaude Bazin de Bezons was the father of:\n\n", "id": "7725244", "categories": ["1684 deaths", "French lawyers", "1617 births", "People from Paris"], "title": "Claude Bazin de Bezons"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725246", "text": "Kiheitai\n\nThe was a volunteer militia raised by Takasugi Shinsaku of the Chōshū domain during the Bakumatsu period of Japan.\n\nFounded in 1863 by Takasugi Shinsaku, the Kiheitai militia consisted of 300 men, who came from all social classes, including farmers, merchants, \"samurai\" and others. Most were from Chōshū, but a few volunteers were from other domains. The Kiheitai was known for its discipline, and use of western-style weapons and military techniques. It was partly funded by the Chōshū domain, but gained the rest of its financial support through donations by wealthy merchants and farmers. Kiheitai followed a developing trend which had been spearheaded by the shogunate following the Convention of Kanagawa to form military units based on ability rather than hereditary social status. Shinsengumi, a Kyoto-based, pro-Tokugawa police force, was founded in the same year as Kiheitai, and was also composed of people from a broad variety of social classes. \n\nThe Kiheitai militia saw action in the Bombardment of Shimonoseki in 1864, during which the fleets of Great Britain, France, the Netherlands, and the United States fired upon the Chōshū port city of Shimonoseki, and subsequently landed troops. \n\nAs the military arm of the pro-reform faction within the Chōshū domain, the Kiheitai helped overthrow the pro-\"bakufu\" faction in the Chōshū civil war, repulsed the Second Chōshū expedition sent by the Tokugawa \"bakufu\" in 1866. Around the same time, the Second Kiheitai was formed in the Suō Province.\n\nTakasugi died of tuberculosis in 17 May 1867, his Kiheitai militia was taken over by his protégé Yamagata Aritomo. The Kiheitai militia played an important role in the Boshin War, which led to the Meiji Restoration.\n\nThe Kiheitai was disbanded in 1868, with total enlistment of 622 men since 1863. The success of the socially mixed unit and its Western armaments and tactics was an important influence on the development of the Imperial Japanese Army, and on the later system of universal military conscription in Japan.\n\nThe forces defending Aizuwakamatsu during the Boshin War, and the forces of Saigō Takamori in the Satsuma Rebellion also used the term \"kiheitai\" to describe themselves.\n\n\n", "id": "7725246", "categories": ["Militias in Asia", "Meiji Restoration", "Military units and formations established in 1863"], "title": "Kiheitai"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725248", "text": "Khajjiar Lake\n\nKhajjiar Lake is situated in Khajjiar, in Chamba district of Himachal Pradesh, India. It is situated at a height of around 1,920 m above sea level between Dalhousie and Chamba Town. The lake is set in a huge grassy landscape, with evergreen cedar trees surrounding it from all sides. The lake takes its name from Khajji Nag, the deity in the temple nearby. The lake has considerably shrunk over the years and is now almost on the verge of vanishing.\n\n\nThe lake is considered a sacred place to the Khajjinags (after whom this place is named). Khajjiar has a thick forest cover around the Kalatope sanctuary.\n\n", "id": "7725248", "categories": ["Geography of Chamba district", "Lakes of Himachal Pradesh"], "title": "Khajjiar Lake"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725252", "text": "Raúl Reyes\n\nLuis Edgar Devia Silva (September 30, 1948 – March 1, 2008), better known by his \"nom de guerre\" Raúl Reyes, was a Secretariat member, spokesperson, and advisor to the Southern Bloc of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia–People's Army (FARC–EP). He was killed in a targeted killing military operation by the Colombian army within Ecuador, sparking the 2008 Andean diplomatic crisis.\n\nReyes was born in the Colombian town of La Plata, Huila Department. Devia Silva joined the Colombian Communist Youth (JUCO) when he was 16 years old. He later joined a trade union movement while working for a Nestlé milk plant in the department of Caquetá. Devia Silva served as councilman for his home town representing the Colombian Communist Party (PCC), and was also a member of the party's Central Committee.\n\nAfter becoming a member of FARC and joining its secretariat, Reyes became a prominent figure and spokesperson for the FARC, number two man in the group's seven person ruling secretariat.\n\nReyes was accused by the US Department of State and the Colombian government of expanding FARC's cocaine trafficking activities and setting related policies, including the production, manufacture, and distribution of hundreds of tons of cocaine to the United States and other countries. He was accused of promoting the \"taxation\" of the illegal drug trade in Colombia to raise funds for the FARC, as well as participating in the murder of hundreds of people who violated or interfered with the FARC's cocaine-related policies.\n\nHe had been formally sentenced in absence for the deaths of 13 policemen and 18 soldiers, 18 kidnappings and the deaths of a judge, a physician, three judicial auxiliaries, the ex-minister of Culture Consuelo Araújo, the congressman Diego Turbay and his mother, Catholic monsignor Isaías Duarte, Governor of Antioquia Guillermo Gaviria, the Colombian ex-minister Gilberto Echeverri, 11 members of the Valle del Cauca Assembly and at least four other persons. Most of these persons were kidnapped before their deaths. Gaviria, Echeverri and Araújo were killed by shots in the head when Colombian military forces stormed the camps where they were held by guerrilla insurgents. He was also found responsible for bombing Club El Nogal in Bogotá where 36 people were killed. The Government of Paraguay had asked for his extradition for his participation in the kidnapping and death of Cecilia Cubas, daughter of the ex-president of Paraguay, who was kidnapped on September 21, 2004, and whose body was found in an abandoned house in February 2005. Before his death the United States Department of State was offering a reward of up to US$5 million for information leading to his arrest. He was also included in Interpol's \"red list\".\n\nColombian authorities believed that Raúl Reyes moved through the southern Colombian frontier, especially in Putumayo Department, along the border with Ecuador. In late 2006, his possible presence in Ecuadorian territory was denounced by Colombian President Álvaro Uribe, while Ecuador's authorities rejected the claim, admitting only temporary FARC \"infiltrations\". Colombian Army General German Galvis repeated this claim in October 2006.\n\nIn June 1999, during peace negotiations with the government of Andrés Pastrana, Reyes met in the Colombian savannah with Richard Grasso, then chairman of the New York Stock Exchange. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss investment opportunities for the FARC. The two men were photographed in an embrace which became known as the \"Grasso abrazo.\"\n\nReyes was killed during a Colombian military operation in Granada, Putumayo Department, on March 1, 2008, against an encampment situated near Santa Rosa de Sucumbíos, on the Ecuadorian side of the border along the Putumayo River. \n\nPreviously, in February 2008, the FBI and DEA had assisted the Colombian government in tracing a satellite phone call made by Reyes to Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez in which they discussed the release of hostages. Reyes’ location was traced to an encampment located a mile across Colombia’s southern border in neighboring Ecuador — the government of which had earlier denied reports of Reyes’ presence. The attack started at 00:25. Reyes died after stepping on a FARC land mine while trying to flee the camp.\n\nThe Colombian government acknowledged the killing of Reyes and 16 more guerrillas in a guerrilla camp inside Ecuador's border. The dead body was retrieved and transported to Colombian territory after the operation took place. Colombian soldier Carlos Edilson Hernández León was killed in action during the attack. According to a DPA report, \"Noticias Uno\" claimed that Hernández León died accidentally, due to a falling tree.\n\nAccording to the Ecuadorian government the attack happened from the border inside Ecuador’s territory, and it was a planned air strike followed by the incursion of Colombian troops transported by helicopters. The attack left a total of 20 guerrilla members dead in Ecuadorian territory, many of them wearing underwear or sleeping clothes. According to Ecuadorean president Rafael Correa, the Super Tucanos war planes entered in Ecuador's territory and struck while flying north, followed by troops who came by helicopters and completed the attack.\n\nThe Ecuadorean president announced that a diplomatic note would be sent in protest, claiming that the action was a violation of Ecuador's airspace. Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez called the attack \"a cowardly murder\", and reacted by moving troops near the border with Colombia and recalling all personnel from the Venezuelan embassy in Colombia, saying that doing something similar inside Venezuela would be a \"cause for war\".\n\nEventually the dispute did not escalate beyond a war of words. Diplomatic meetings and an apology from Colombian president Álvaro Uribe resolved the crisis a week later.\n\nColombian government officials have seized documents that, according to a spokesman for EX Colombian President Álvaro Uribe, show Ecuadorian President Rafael Correa \"has a relationship and commitments with FARC\", and, according to the Colombian National Police Director Oscar Naranjo, Reyes had met Ecuador's minister of internal security to discuss an \"interest in making official relations with the FARC\".\n\nAccording to Colombian authorities, the three laptop computers seized were found to hold extensive information about the FARC, their operations and connections. The Colombian government handed over the three PCs and their ancillary devices to a team of Interpol experts, for a period of two weeks. Interpol's analysis had a limited scope, toward the sole objective of certifying whether the information was or was not altered in any way by the Colombian government, and not to examine the contents of the documents themselves. The Interpol report concluded that the key documents were unharmed and unmodified, but noted that the devices had been operated and accessed without write protection after their seizure. Over 3,500 files had date stamps indicating they had been created or modified in the future and the report concluded that \"these files were originally created prior to March 1, 2008 on a device or devices with incorrect system time settings.\"\n\nThe Interpol's list of information recovered from the devices mentions over 30,000 written documents and more than 7,000 e-mail addresses.\n\nOn June 15, 2008, Interpol issued a new press release in response to a statement by Ecuador's Foreign Ministry that the international organization considered to be incorrect. The press release stated that \"[Ecuador] inaccurately suggests that Interpol had not established whether the eight seized exhibits forensically examined by Interpol's computer forensic experts had been recovered by Colombian authorities on March 1, 2008 from a FARC camp or belonged to Raul Reyes. In fact, based on a review of all the information and material provided by Colombia, including a classified oral briefing, Interpol was able to satisfy itself, and clearly stated in its report, that the seized computer exhibits it was requested to forensically examine were taken from the FARC terrorist camp on March 1, 2008 and belonged to Raul Reyes.\" Interpol also added \"that validating the contents of the computer exhibits were not manipulated after their seizure by Colombian authorities is not in any way, shape or form the same as saying that the contents of the user files are true and accurate. Interpol therefore objects to those who suggest that Interpol's report validates the source and accuracy of any particular document or user file contained therein.\"\n\nOn March 16, 2010 Hugo Chávez admitted having had a meeting with Reyes at an indeterminate date during Pastrana's government.\n\n", "id": "7725252", "categories": ["Members of FARC", "1948 births", "2008 deaths", "People from Huila Department"], "title": "Raúl Reyes"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725259", "text": "Portrait of P. D. Q. Bach\n\nPortrait of P. D. Q. Bach was released in 1977 on Vanguard Records. The album features mostly the work of Peter Schickele writing as P. D. Q. Bach, with one contribution under his own name.\n\n\n1. Introduction (1:50)\n7. Introduction (:28)<br>\n8. Eine Kleine Nichtmusik (Prof. Schickele) (11:45)\n9. Introduction (1:28)<br>\n10. Echo Sonata for Two Unfriendly Groups of Instruments, S. 9999999999 (P.D.Q. Bach) (2:14)<br>\n11. Introduction (1:02)<br>\n12. A Consort of Choral Christmas Carols, S. 359 (P.D.Q. Bach) (6:29)\n\n\"Eine Kleine Nichtmusik\" (\"A Little \"Not\" Music\"), is a quodlibet consisting of Mozart's work \"Eine kleine Nachtmusik\" played in its entirety, along with snippets of dozens of famous tunes heard in counterpoint throughout the piece, taken from both American folk music and the classical repertoire.\n\n\n", "id": "7725259", "categories": ["1970s comedy albums", "P. D. Q. Bach albums", "1977 albums", "Vanguard Records albums"], "title": "Portrait of P. D. Q. Bach"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725267", "text": "Thomas N. Downing\n\nThomas Nelms Downing (February 1, 1919 – October 23, 2001) was a lawyer, politician, and Democratic Congressman from for nine terms.\n\nDowning was born and raised in Newport News, Virginia. He attended Newport News High School, and graduated from Virginia Military Institute in 1940. After serving in the United States Army from 1942 to 1946, he attended and graduated from the University of Virginia Law School in 1948. He practiced as a lawyer, as well as a substitute judge of the municipal court of Warwick, Virginia.\n\nIn 1958 he was elected as a Democrat to Congress and was re-elected eight times, before declining to run in 1976. Downing served 18 years in Congress prior to retiring in 1977.\n\n\nDowning was appointed Chairman of the House Select Committee on Assassinations by Carl Albert, the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives. The Committee was tasked to look into evidence that was not available to the Warren Commission during its investigation of the assassination of John F. Kennedy. Upon his retirement from Congress in 1977, Louis Stokes succeeded Downing as Chairman.\n\nDowning stated before and after the HSCA's investigation that he believed there was a conspiracy to assassinate Kennedy. He pushed for a House committee to investigate the assassination nearly two years before its formation. In August 1976, he released affidavits from two men who stated that Richard Nixon approved the plan of a right-wing Cuban exile to \"eliminate\" left-wing Cuban exiles after the Bay of Pigs invasion. Downing said that their statements raised the possibility that right-wing Cubans killed Kennedy.\n\nDowning said that he was skeptical that Lee Harvey Oswald could accurately fire a bolt-action rifle within a short span of time, and he believed video footage of the assassination showed that Kennedy was struck from the front and the rear. According to a theory provided by Downing, one which he said was without evidence and based on speculation, anti-Castro Cuban exiles killed Kennedy due to his failure to support them after the 1961 Bay of Pigs invasion. Downing stated that they expected pro-Castro Cubans would be blamed for the assassination in retaliation for the attempted assassination of Fidel Castro by United States agents. Downing said: \"I am firmly convinced, I am sincerely convinced, that more than one person was shooting at President Kennedy in Dallas that day. It is so obvious to me.\"\n\nDowning described \"JFK\", Oliver Stone's 1991 film about the assassination of Kennedy, as \"implausible\". He said: \"It's impossible to tell where fact stops and fiction starts, it blends in so well.\"\n\nPrior to the investigation, James J. Kilpatrick described Downing as \"a man of exception integrity and common sense\" yet \"not altogether unbiased in the matter of Kennedy's assassination\". Robert P. Gemberling, head of the FBI's investigation of the assassination for thirteen years after the release of the Warren Commission's report, said in 1976 that Downing and his successor, Henry B. Gonzalez, had \"preconceived conspiracy theories\".\n\nHe died from the complications of intestinal surgery at the age of 82, and is interred in Peninsula Memorial Park Cemetery, Newport News, Virginia.\n", "id": "7725267", "categories": ["2001 deaths", "Virginia lawyers", "20th-century American lawyers", "John F. Kennedy conspiracy theorists", "20th-century American politicians", "Members of the United States House of Representatives from Virginia", "1919 births", "Politicians from Newport News, Virginia", "Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives", "Virginia Democrats", "University of Virginia School of Law alumni"], "title": "Thomas N. Downing"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725290", "text": "Dearne Valley Railway\n\nThe Dearne Valley Railway (DVR) was a railway line which ran through the valley of the River Dearne in South Yorkshire. It was incorporated by an Act of Parliament on 6 August 1897 to build a line between Brierley Junction, on the main line of the Hull and Barnsley Railway, to junctions with the Great Northern Railway and the Great Northern and Great Eastern Joint Railway south east of Doncaster.\n\nAlthough the line was considered an independent company it was worked by the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway (LYR). It opened in sections over 7 years from 1902.\n\nConstruction was complete by 1908-9 the work being carried out by contractors Naylor Bros., Gates and Hogg, Henry Lovatt, and Whittaker Bros. At first, only goods traffic was carried. Passenger trains came to the line on 3 June 1912 running between Wakefield Kirkgate and Edlington with intermediate halts serving Ryhill, Grimethorpe, Great Houghton, Goldthorpe and Thurnscoe, Harlington and Denaby.\n\nThe LYR amalgamated with the London and North Western Railway on 1 January 1922; the combined organisation (also known as the London and North Western Railway) absorbed the DVR on the same day. It duly passed to the London, Midland and Scottish Railway on 1 January 1923.\n\nPassenger services ceased on 10 September 1951, the last trains having run on 9 September.\n\nGoods traffic continued but several changes were made to the track layout. The lines between (near) Grimethorpe Colliery and Brierley Junction and from Grimethorpe Colliery and Edlington were closed on the opening of a new connection from the Midland Railway's main line near Houghton in 1966. The Dearne Valley connection to Yorkshire Main Colliery at Edlington was removed in May 1972, the colliery being served by a connection to St. Catherine's Junction on the South Yorkshire Joint Railway, the junctions here being rebuilt in connection with the Doncaster area re-signalling in early May 1977.\n\n", "id": "7725290", "categories": ["Pre-grouping British railway companies", "Rail transport in West Yorkshire", "Rail transport in South Yorkshire", "LMS constituents"], "title": "Dearne Valley Railway"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725293", "text": "Ferreira Pinto (footballer, born 1979)\n\nAdriano Ferreira Pinto (born December 10, 1979), or simply Ferreira Pinto, is a Brazilian football winger playing for Varese.\n\nHe played for São José Esporte Clube in Brazil before joining S.S. Lanciano in 2002 in Italy's Serie C1. He then moved up to Serie B with Perugia and Cesena.\n\nIn October 2008, Ferreira Pinto extended his contract with Atalanta to June 2011.\nDuring the last days of winter's market he signed a contract until June with the Serie B team Varese.\n\n", "id": "7725293", "categories": ["União São João Esporte Clube players", "Serie B players", "People from Paraná (state)", "1979 births", "Brazilian expatriate footballers", "A.C. Perugia Calcio players", "S.S. Virtus Lanciano 1924 players", "Expatriate footballers in Italy", "Living people", "Atalanta B.C. players", "Brazilian footballers", "Association football forwards", "Varese Calcio players", "A.C. Cesena players", "Serie A players"], "title": "Ferreira Pinto (footballer, born 1979)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725295", "text": "History of Islam in China\n\nThe history of Islam in China began when four \"Ṣaḥābā\"—Sa‘d ibn Abī Waqqās (594–674), Ja'far ibn Abi Talib, and Jahsh preached in 616/17 and onwards in China after coming from Chittagong-Kamrup-Manipur route after sailing from Abyssinia in 615/16. Sa‘d ibn Abi Waqqas again headed for China for the third time in 650–51 after Caliph ‘Uthman asked him to lead an embassy to China, which the Chinese emperor received warmly.\n\nTrade existed between pre-Islamic Arabia and China's South Coast, and flourished when Arab maritime traders converted to Islam. It reached its peak under the Mongol Yuan Dynasty.\n\nChina's long and interactive relationship with the various steppe tribes and empires, through trade, war, subordination or domination paved the way for a large sustained Islamic community within China. Islamic influence came from the various steppe peoples who assimilated in Chinese culture. Muslims served as administrators, generals, and other leaders who were transferred to China from Persia and Central Asia to administer the empire under the Mongols.\n\nMuslims in China have managed to practice their faith in China, sometimes against great odds, since the seventh century. Islam is one of the religions that is still officially recognized in China.\nAccording to the historical accounts of Chinese Muslims, Islam was first brought to China by Sa'd ibn abi Waqqas, who came to China for the third time at the head of an embassy sent by Uthman, the third Caliph, in 651, less than twenty years after the death of prophet Muhammad. The embassy was led by Sa`d ibn Abī Waqqās. Emperor Gaozong, the Tang emperor who received the envoy then ordered the construction of the Memorial mosque in Canton, the first mosque in the country, in memory of the prophet. Hui legends seem to confuse the 651 visit with the initiation of Islam as early as 616/17 by earlier visits of \"Sahabas\".\n\nWhile modern historians tend to argue that there is no evidence for Waqqās himself ever coming to China, they do believe that Muslim diplomats and merchants arrived in Tang China within a few decades from the beginning of Middle Ages (Hijra). The Tang Dynasty's cosmopolitan culture, with its intensive contacts with Central Asia and its significant communities of (originally non-Muslim) Central and Western Asian merchants resident in Chinese cities, which helped the introduction of Islam.\n\nArab people are first noted in Chinese written records, under the name \"Ta shi\" in the annals of the Tang Dynasty (618-907) (Ta shi or Da shi is the Chinese rendering of Tazi—the name the Persian people used for the Arabs). Records dating from 713 speak of the arrival of a \"Da shi\" ambassador. The first major Muslim settlements in China consisted of Arab and Persian merchants.\n\nDespite conflict between the Tang and the Abbasids during the Battle of Talas in 751, relations between the two states improved soon after. In 756, a contingent probably consisting of Persians and Iraqis was sent to Kansu to help the emperor Su-Tsung in his struggle against the rebellion of An Lushan. Less than 50 years later, an alliance was concluded between the Tang and the Abbasids against Tibetan attacks in Central Asia. A mission from the Caliph Harun al-Rashid (766-809) arrived at Chang'an.\n\nIt is recorded that in 758, a large Muslim settlement in Guangzhou erupted in unrest and the people fled. The community had constructed a large mosque (Huaisheng Mosque), destroyed by fire in 1314, and constructed in 1349-51; only ruins of a tower remain from the first building.\n\nDuring the Tang Dynasty, a steady stream of Arab (Ta'shi) and Persian (Po'si) traders arrived in China through the silk road and the overseas route through the port of Quanzhou. Not all of the immigrants were Muslims, but many of those who stayed formed the basis of the Chinese Muslim population and the Hui ethnic group. The Persian immigrants introduced polo, their cuisine, their musical instruments, and their knowledge of medicine to China.\n\nMany Muslims went to China to trade, and these Muslims began to have a great economic impact and influence on the country. During the Song Dynasty (960-1279), Muslims in China dominated foreign trade and the import/export industry to the south and west.\n\nIn 1070, the Song emperor, Shen-tsung (Shenzong) invited 5,300 Muslim men from Bukhara, to settle in China. The emperor used these men in his campaign against the Liao empire in the northeast. Later on these men were settled between the Sung capital of Kaifeng and Yenching (modern day Beijing). The object was to create a buffer zone between the Chinese and the Liao. In 1080, 10,000 Arab men and women migrated to China on horseback and settled in all of the provinces of the north and north-east. The Chinese materia medica 52 (re-published in 1968-75) was revised under the Song Dynasty in 1056 and 1107 to include material, particularly 200 medicines, taken from Ibn Sina's \"The Canon of Medicine\".\n\nThe Arabs from Bukhara were under the leadership of Prince Amir Sayyid \"So-fei-er\" (his Chinese name). The prince was later given an honorary title. He is reputed of being the \"father\" of the Muslim community in China. Prior to him Islam was named by the Tang and Song Chinese as \"Dashi fa\" (\"law of the Arabs\") (Tashi or Dashi is the Chinese rendering of Tazi—the name the Persian people used for the Arabs). . He renamed it to \"Huihui Jiao\" (\"the Religion of the Huihui\").\n\nThe Yuan Dynasty of China continued to maintain excellent relationship with other nomadic tribes of Mongolia. The Mongol rulers of Yuan Dynasty elevated the status of foreigners of all religions versus the Han, Khitan, and Jurchen, and placed many foreigners such as Muslim Persians and Arabs, Turkic Christians, Jews, Tibetan Buddhist Lamas, and Buddhist Turpan Uyghurs in high-ranking posts instead of native Confucian scholars, using many Muslims in the administration of China. The territory of the Yuan was administered in 12 districts during the reign of Kublai Khan with a governor and vice-governor each. According to Iranian historian Rashidu'd-Din Fadlu'llah, of these 12 governors, 8 were Muslims; in the remaining districts, Muslims were vice-governors.\n\nAt the same time the Mongols imported Central Asian Muslims to serve as administrators in China, the Mongols also sent Han Chinese and Khitans from China to serve as administrators over the Muslim population in Bukhara in Central Asia, using foreigners to curtail the power of the local peoples of both lands.\n\nThe state forced massive numbers of Central Asian Muslims to move into China during the Yuan period. In the fourteenth century, the total population of Muslims was 4,000,000. It was during this time that Jamal ad-Din, a Persian astronomer, presented Kublai Khan with seven Persian astronomical instruments. Also, The Muslim architect Yeheidie'erding (Amir al-Din) learned from Han architecture and helped to design and construct the capital of the Yuan Dynasty, Dadu, otherwise known as Khanbaliq or Khanbaligh.\n\nIn the mid-14th century, the Ispah Rebellion against the Mongol Yuan led by Chinese Persian Muslims broke out in South Fujian. After the rebellion was suppressed the local Han Chinese in Quanzhou turned against Semu people and great misery was brought upon Muslim population. Quanzhou itself ceased to be a leading international seaport.\n\nGenghis Khan and the following Yuan emperors forbade Islamic practices like Halal butchering, forcing Mongol methods of butchering animals on Muslims, and other restrictive degrees continued. Muslims had to slaughter sheep in secret. Genghis Khan directly called Muslims and Jews \"slaves\", and demanded that they follow the Mongol method of eating rather than the halal method. Circumcision was also forbidden. Jews were also affected, and forbidden by the Mongols to eat Kosher. Toward the end, corruption and the persecution became so severe that Muslim generals joined Han Chinese in rebelling against the Mongols. The Ming founder Zhu Yuanzhang had Muslim generals like Lan Yu who rebelled against the Mongols and defeated them in combat. Some Muslim communities had the name in Chinese which meant \"barracks\" and also mean \"thanks\", many Hui Muslims claim it is because that they played an important role in overthrowing the Mongols and it was named in thanks by the Han Chinese for assisting them.\n\nDadu would last until 1368 when Zhu Yuanzhang, the founder of the Ming Dynasty and future Hongwu Emperor, made his imperial ambitions known by sending an army toward the Yuan capital. The last Yuan emperor fled north to Shangdu and Zhu declared the founding of the Ming Dynasty after razing the Yuan palaces in Dadu to the ground. The city was renamed Beiping by the Ming in the same year.\n\nMuslims continued to flourish in China during the Ming Dynasty. During Ming rule, the capital, Nanjing, was a center of Islamic learning. The Ming dynasty saw the rapid decline in the Muslim population in the sea ports. This was due to the closing of all seaport trade with the outside world. However it also saw the appointment of Muslim military generals such as Mu Ying who campaigned in Yunnan and central Shandong. These two areas became leading centers of Islamic learning in China. The emperor Zhu Yuanzhang was the founder of the Ming Dynasty. Many of his most trusted commanders were Muslims, including Hu Dahai, Mu Ying, Lan Yu, Feng Sheng and Ding Dexing. The Ming Dynasty also gave rise to the famous Muslim explorer Zheng He.\n\nMuslims in Ming dynasty Beijing were given relative freedom by the Chinese, with no restrictions placed on their religious practices or freedom of worship, and being normal citizens in Beijing. In contrast to the freedom granted to Muslims, followers of Tibetan Buddhism and Catholicism suffered from restrictions and censure in Beijing.\n\nBoth Mongol and Central Asian Semu Muslim women and men of both sexes were required by Ming Code to marry Han Chinese after the first Ming Emperor Hongwu passed the law in Article 122.\n\nImmigration slowed down drastically however, and the Muslims in China became increasingly isolated from the rest of the Islamic world, gradually becoming more sinicized, adopting the Chinese language and Chinese dress. During this period, Muslims also began to adopt Chinese surnames. Other Muslims, who could not find a Chinese surname similar to their own, adopted the Chinese character most similar to their own - Ma (馬) for Muhammad, Mai for Mustafa, Mu for Masoud, Ha for Hasan, Hu for Hussain and Sa'I for Said and so on. The Hui, Salar, and Dongxiang are Muslims in China who use Chinese surnames. As a result, the Muslims became \"outwardly indistinguishable\" from the Chinese.\n\nIn addition to names, Muslim customs of dress and food also underwent a synthesis with Chinese culture.The Islamic modes of dress and dietary rules were maintained within a Chinese cultural framework. In time, the immigrant Muslims began to speak local dialects and to read in Chinese.\n\nQing Dynasty (1644–1911) was ruled by the Manchus.\n\nIn the Qing Dynasty, Muslims had many mosques in the large cities, with particularly important ones in Beijing, Xi'an, Hangzhou, Guangzhou, and other places (in addition to those in the western Muslim regions). The architecture typically employed traditional Chinese styles, with Arabic-language inscriptions being the chief distinguishing feature. Many Muslims held government positions, including positions of importance, particularly in the army. As travel became easier, there were many exchanges between China and the outside world. Around this time, Chinese Muslims also became the first Muslims in New Zealand (See Islam in New Zealand). Sufism spread throughout the Northwestern China in \nthe early decades of the Qing Dynasty (mid-17th century through early 18th century). The most important Sufi orders (\"menhuan\") included:\n\nWhen the Qing dynasty invaded the Ming dynasty in 1644, Muslim Ming loyalists in Gansu led by Muslim leaders Milayin and Ding Guodong led a revolt in 1646 against the Qing during the Milayin rebellion in order to drive the Qing out and restore the Ming Prince of Yanchang Zhu Shichuan to the throne as the emperor. The Muslim Ming loyalists were supported by Hami's Sultan Sa'id Baba and his son Prince Turumtay. The Muslim Ming loyalists were joined by Tibetans and Han Chinese in the revolt. After fierce fighting, and negotiations, a peace agreement was agreed on in 1649, and Milayan and Ding nominally pledged alleigance to the Qing and were given ranks as members of the Qing military. When other Ming loyalists in southern China made a resurgence and the Qing were forced to withdraw their forces from Gansu to fight them, Milayan and Ding once again took up arms and rebelled against the Qing. The Muslim Ming loyalists were then crushed by the Qing with 100,000 of them, including Milayin, Ding Guodong, and Turumtay killed in battle.\n\nThe Confucian Hui Muslim scholar Ma Zhu (1640-1710) served with the southern Ming loyalists against the Qing.\n\nDuring the time, the Muslims revolted against the Qing Dynasty, most notably in the Dungan revolt (1862–1877) and the Panthay rebellion (1856-1873) in Yunnan. One million people died in the Panthay rebellion, several million people died in the Dungan revolt.\n\nHowever, Muslims in other parts of China proper like in the east and southern provinces who did not revolt, were not affected at all by the rebellion, and experienced no genocide, nor did they seek to revolt. It was reported that Muslim villages in Henan province, which was next to Shaanxi, were totally unnaffected and relations between Han and Hui continued normally.\n\nThe Hui Muslim population of Beijing was unaffected by the Muslim rebels during the Dungan revolt.\n\nElisabeth Allès wrote that the relationship between Hui Muslim and Han peoples continued normally in the Henan area, with no ramifications or consequences from the Muslim rebellions of other areas. Allès wrote \"The major Muslim revolts in the middle of the nineteenth century which involved the Hui in Shaanxi, Gansu and Yunnan, as well as the Uyghurs in Xinjiang, do not seem to have had any direct effect on this region of the central plain.\"\n\nMany Muslims like Ma Zhan'ao, Ma Anliang, Dong Fuxiang, Ma Qianling, and Ma Julung defected to the Qing dynasty side, and helped the Qing general Zuo Zongtang exterminate the Muslim rebels. These Muslim generals belonged to the Khafiya sect, and they helped Qing massacre Jahariyya rebels. General Zuo moved the Han around Hezhou out of the area and relocated them as a reward for the Muslims there helping Qing kill other Muslim rebels.\n\nIn 1895, another Dungan Revolt (1895) broke out, and loyalist Muslims like Dong Fuxiang, Ma Anliang, Ma Guoliang, Ma Fulu, and Ma Fuxiang suppressed and massacred the rebel Muslims led by Ma Dahan, Ma Yonglin, and Ma Wanfu.\n\nA Muslim army called the Kansu Braves led by General Dong Fuxiang fought for the Qing dynasty against the foreigners during the Boxer Rebellion. They included well known Generals like Ma Anliang, Ma Fulu, and Ma Fuxiang.\n\nIn Yunnan was noted that the Qing armies only massacred the Muslims who had rebelled, and spared Muslims who took no part in the uprising.\n\nThe Ush rebellion in 1765 by Uyghurs against the Manchus occurred after Uyghur women were gang raped by the servants and son of Manchu official Su-cheng. It was said that \"Ush Muslims had long wanted to sleep on [Sucheng and son's] hides and eat their flesh.\" because of the rape of Uyghur Muslim women for months by the Manchu official Sucheng and his son. The Manchu Emperor ordered that the Uyghur rebel town be massacred, the Qing forces enslaved all the Uyghur children and women and slaughtered the Uyghur men. Manchu soldiers and Manchu officials regularly having sex with or raping Uyghur women caused massive hatred and anger by Uyghur Muslims to Manchu rule. The invasion by Jahangir Khoja was preceded by another Manchu official, Binjing who raped a Muslim daughter of the Kokan aqsaqal from 1818-1820. The Qing sought to cover up the rape of Uyghur women by Manchus to prevent anger against their rule from spreading among the Uyghurs.\n\nThe Manchu official Shuxing'a started an anti-Muslim massacre which led to the Panthay Rebellion. Shuxing'a developed a deep hatred of Muslims after an incident where he was stripped naked and nearly lynched by a mob of Muslims. He ordered several Muslim rebels to be slow sliced to death. Tariq Ali wrote about the real incident in one of his novels, claiming the Muslims who had nearly lynched Shuxing'a were not Hui Muslims but belonged to another ethnicity but nevertheless the Manchu official blamed all Muslims for the incident.\n\nIn addition to sending Han exiles convicted of crimes to Xinjiang to be slaves of Banner garrisons there, the Qing also practiced reverse exile, exiling Inner Asian (Mongol, Russian and Muslim criminals from Mongolia and Inner Asia) to China proper where they would serve as slaves in Han Banner garrisons in Guangzhou. Russian, Oirats and Muslims (Oros. Ulet. Hoise jergi weilengge niyalma) such as Yakov and Dmitri were exiled to the Han banner garrison in Guangzhou. In the 1780s after the Muslim rebellion in Gansu started by Zhang Wenqing 張文慶 was defeated, Muslims like Ma Jinlu 馬進祿 were exiled to the Han Banner garrison in Guangzhou to become slaves to Han Banner officers. The Qing code regulating Mongols in Mongolia sentenced Mongol criminals to exile and to become slaves to Han bannermen in Han Banner garrisons in China proper.\n\nThe Hui Muslim community was divided in it's support for the 1911 Xinhai Revolution. The Hui Muslims of Shaanxi supported the revolutionaries and the Hui Muslims of Gansu supported the Qing. The native Hui Muslims (Mohammedans) of Xi'an (Shaanxi province) joined the Han Chinese revolutionaries in slaughtering the entire 20,000 Manchu population of Xi'an. The native Hui Muslims of Gansu province led by general Ma Anliang sided with the Qing and prepard to attack the anti-Qing revolutionaries of Xi'an city. Only some wealthy Manchus who were ransomed and Manchu females survived. Wealthy Han Chinese seized Manchu girls to become their slaves and poor Han Chinese troops seized young Manchu women to be their wives. Young pretty Manchu girls were also seized by Hui Muslims of Xi'an during the massacre and brought up as Muslims.\n\nThe Manchu dynasty fell in 1911, and the Republic of China was established by Sun Yat Sen, who immediately proclaimed that the country belonged equally to the Han, Hui (Muslim), Meng (Mongol), and the Tsang (Tibetan) peoples. This led to some improvement in relations between these different peoples. The end of the Qing dynasty also marked an increase in Sino-foreign interaction. This led to increased contact between Muslim minorities in China and the Islamic states of the Middle East. A missionary, Claude Pickens, found 834 well-known Hui who had made hajj between 1923 and 1934. By 1939, at least 33 Hui Muslims had studied at Cairo's Al-Azhar University. In 1912, the Chinese Muslim Federation was formed in the capital Nanjing. Similar organization formed in Beijing (1912), Shanghai (1925) and Jinan (1934). Academic activities within the Muslim community also flourished. Before the Sino-Japanese War of 1937, there existed more than a hundred known Muslim periodicals. Thirty journals were published between 1911 and 1937. Although Linxia remained the center for religious activities, many Muslim cultural activities had shifted to Beijing.\n\nIn the first decade of the 20th century, it has been estimated that there were 20 million Muslims in China proper (that is, China excluding the regions of Mongolia and Xinjiang). Of these, almost half resided in Gansu, over a third in Shaanxi (as defined at that time) and the rest in Yunnan. In 1911, the provinces of Qinhai, Gansu and Ningxia fell to Muslim warlords of the family known as the Ma clique, including Ma Bufang and Ma Chung-ying.\n\nDuring the Second Sino-Japanese war the Japanese followed what has been referred to as a \"killing policy\" and destroyed many mosques. According to Wan Lei, \"Statistics showed that the Japanese destroyed 220 mosques and killed countless Hui people by April 1941.\" After the Rape of Nanking mosques in Nanjing were found to be filled with dead bodies.They also followed a policy of economic oppression which involved the destruction of mosques and Hui communities and made many Hui jobless and homeless. Another policy was one of deliberate humiliation. This included soldiers smearing mosques with pork fat, forcing Hui to butcher pigs to feed the soldiers, and forcing girls to ostensibly train as geishas and singers but in fact made them serve as sex slaves. Hui cemeteries were destroyed for military reasons. Many Hui fought in the war against Japan.\n\nThe Hui Muslim county of Dachang was subjected to slaughter by the Japanese.\n\nOn 10 February 1938, Legation Secretary of the German Embassy, Rosen, wrote to his Foreign Ministry about a film made in December by Reverend John Magee about the Nanking Massacre to recommend its purchase. Here is an excerpt from his letter and a description of some of its shots, kept in the Political Archives of the Foreign Ministry in Berlin. One of the victims killed by the Japanese was a Muslim (Mohammedan) whose name was Ha.\n\nDuring the Japanese reign of terror in Nanking – which, by the way, continues to this day to a considerable degree – the Reverend John Magee, a member of the American Episcopal Church Mission who has been here for almost a quarter of a century, took motion pictures that eloquently bear witness to the atrocities committed by the Japanese ... One will have to wait and see whether the highest officers in the Japanese army succeed, as they have indicated, in stopping the activities of their troops, which continue even today.\n\nOn December 13, about 30 soldiers came to a Chinese house at #5 Hsing Lu Koo in the southeastern part of Nanking, and demanded entrance. The door was open by the landlord, a Mohammedan named Ha. They killed him immediately with a revolver and also Mrs. Ha, who knelt before them after Ha's death, begging them not to kill anyone else. Mrs. Ha asked them why they killed her husband and they shot her. Mrs. Hsia was dragged out from under a table in the guest hall where she had tried to hide with her 1 year old baby. After being stripped and raped by one or more men, she was bayoneted in the chest, and then had a bottle thrust into her vagina. The baby was killed with a bayonet. Some soldiers then went to the next room, where Mrs. Hsia's parents, aged 76 and 74, and her two daughters aged 16 and 14. They were about to rape the girls when the grandmother tried to protect them. The soldiers killed her with a revolver. The grandfather grasped the body of his wife and was killed. The two girls were then stripped, the elder being raped by 2–3 men, and the younger by 3. The older girl was stabbed afterwards and a cane was rammed in her vagina. The younger girl was bayoneted also but was spared the horrible treatment that had been meted out to her sister and mother. The soldiers then bayoneted another sister of between 7–8, who was also in the room. The last murders in the house were of Ha's two children, aged 4 and 2 respectively. The older was bayoneted and the younger split down through the head with a sword. \n\nIn 1937, during the Battle of Beiping–Tianjin the Chinese government was notified by Muslim General Ma Bufang of the Ma clique that he was prepared to bring the fight to the Japanese in a telegram message. Immediately after the Marco Polo Bridge Incident, Ma Bufang arranged for a cavalry division under the Muslim General Ma Biao to be sent east to battle the Japanese. Ethnic Turkic Salar Muslims made up the majority of the first cavalry division which was sent by Ma Bufang.\n\nMuslims affiliated with the Kuomintang moved to Taiwan after the Chinese Civil War. In the Kuomintang Islamic insurgency, Muslim Kuomintang National Revolutionary Army forces in Northwest China, in Gansu, Qinghai, Ningxia, Xinjiang, as well as Yunnan, continued an unsuccessful insurgency against the communists from 1950 to 1958, after the general civil war was over.\n\nThe People's Republic of China was founded in 1949. Through many of the early years there were tremendous upheavals which culminated in the Cultural Revolution. During the Cultural Revolution urban youths were encouraged to move to the countryside to \"tame the wilderness\" and many chose Xinjiang, inadvertently diverting Muslim influence. During that time, the government also accused Muslims, Buddhists, Christians and all other religions in China of holding \"superstitious beliefs\" and promoting \"anti-socialist trends\". Mosques were often defaced, destroyed or closed and copies of the Quran were destroyed along with Chinese temples, Christian churches, Buddhist monasteries, and cemeteries by the Red Guards. In 1975, in what would be known as the Shadian incident, there was a uprising among Hui in what was the only large scale ethnic rebellion during the Cultural Revolution. \nIn crushing the rebellion, the PLA massacred 1,600 Hui with MIG fighter jets used to fire rockets onto the village. Following the fall of the Gang of Four, apologies and reparations were made.\n\nChinese Muslims say that the Soviet Union was worse in regards to its treatment of Islam than China during the \"ten black years\" (of the Cultural Revolution). \n\nWith economic reform after 1978, health care in China became largely private fee-for-service due to the introduction of capitalist reforms which abolished the free socialist health care. This was widely criticised by Muslims in the North West, who were often unable to obtain medical support in their remote communities. Subsequently, with the advent of Deng Xiaoping in 1979, the Chinese government liberalised its policies toward Islam and Muslims. New legislation gave all minorities the freedom to use their own spoken and written languages; develop their own culture and education; and practice their religion. More Chinese Muslims than ever before are allowed to go on the Hajj.\n\nChina banned a book titled \"Xing Fengsu\" (\"Sexual Customs\") which insulted Islam and placed its authors under arrest in 1989 after protests in Lanzhou and Beijing by Chinese Hui Muslims, during which the Chinese police provided protection to the Hui Muslim protestors, and the Chinese government organized public burnings of the book. The Chinese government assisted them and gave into their demands because Hui do not have a separatist movement, unlike the Uyghurs, Hui Muslim protestors who violently rioted by vandalizing property during the protests against the book were let off by the Chinese government and went unpunished while Uyghur protestors were imprisoned.\n\nTensions between Hui Muslims and Uyghurs arise because Hui troops and officials often dominated the Uyghurs and crush Uyghur revolts. Xinjiang's Hui population increased by over 520 percent between 1940 and 1982, an average annual growth of 4.4 percent, while the Uyghur population only grew at 1.7 percent. This dramatic increase in Hui population led inevitably to significant tensions between the Hui and Uyghur populations. Some Uyghurs in Kashgar remember that the Hui army at the Battle of Kashgar (1934) massacred 2,000 to 8,000 Uyghurs, which causes tension as more Hui moved into Kashgar from other parts of China. Some Hui criticize Uyghur separatism and generally do not want to get involved in conflict in other countries. Hui and Uyghur live separately, attending different mosques.\n\nUnder China's current leadership, Islam is undergoing a modest revival and there are now many mosques in China. There has been an upsurge in Islamic expression and many nationwide Islamic associations have been organised to co-ordinate inter-ethnic activities among Muslims.\n\nIn most of China, Muslims have considerable religious freedom, however, in areas like Xinjiang, where there has been unrest among Uighur Muslims, activities are restricted. China is fighting an increasingly protracted struggle against members of its Uighur minority, who are a Turkic people with their own language and distinct Islamic culture. Uighar separatists are intent on re-establishing the state of East Turkistan, which existed for a few years in the 1920s.Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, China feared potential separatist goals of Muslim majority in Xinjiang. An April, 1996 agreement between Russia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan, however, assures China of avoiding a military conflict. Other Muslim states have also asserted that they have no intentions of becoming involved in China's internal affairs. China fears the influence of radical Islamic thinking filtering in from central Asia, and the role of exiles in neighbouring states and in Turkey, with which Xinjiang's majority Uighur population shares linguistic ties.\n\nIn 2007, anticipating the coming \"Year of the Pig\" in the Chinese calendar, depictions of pigs were banned from CCTV \"to avoid conflicts with ethnic minorities\". This is believed to refer to China's population of 20 million Muslims (to whom pigs are considered \"unclean\").\n\nIn response to the 2015 Charlie Hebdo shooting Chinese state-run media attacked Charlie Hebdo for publishing the cartoons insulting Muhammad, with the state-run \"Xinhua\" advocated limiting freedom of speech, while another state-run newspaper \"Global Times\" said the attack was \"payback\" for what it characterised as Western colonialism and accusing Charlie Hebdo of trying to incite a clash of civilizations.\n\nDifferent Muslim ethnic groups in different regions are treated differently by the Chinese government in regards to religious freedom. Religious freedom is present for Hui Muslims, who can practice their religion, build Mosques, and have their children attend Mosques, while more controls are placed specifically on Uyghurs in Xinjiang. Since the 1980s Islamic private schools (Sino-Arabic schools (中阿學校)) have been supported and permitted by the Chinese government among Muslim areas, only specifically excluding Xinjiang from allowing these schools because of separatist sentiment there.\n\nAlthough religious education for children is officially forbidden by law in China, the Communist party allows Hui Muslims to violate this law and have their children educated in religion and attend Mosques while the law is enforced on Uyghurs. After secondary education is completed, China then allows Hui students who are willing to embark on religious studies under an Imam. China does not enforce the law against children attending Mosques on non-Uyghurs in areas outside of Xinjiang.\n\nHui Muslims who are employed by the state are allowed to fast during Ramadan unlike Uyghurs in the same positions, the amount of Hui going on Hajj is expanding, and Hui women are allowed to wear veils, while Uyghur women are discouraged from wearing them and Uyghurs find it difficult to get passports to go on Hajj.\n\nHui religious schools are allowed a massive autonomous network of mosques and schools run by a Hui Sufi leader was formed with the approval of the Chinese government even as he admitted to attending an event where Bin Laden spoke.\n\nUyghur views vary by the oasis they live in. China has historically favored Turpan and Hami. Uyghurs in Turfan and Hami and their leaders like Emin Khoja allied with the Qing against Uyghurs in Altishahr. During the Qing dynasty, China enfeoffed the rulers of Turpan and Hami (Kumul) as autonomous princes, while the rest of the Uyghurs in Altishahr (the Tarim Basin) were ruled by Begs. Uyghurs from Turpan and Hami were appointed by China as officials to rule over Uyghurs in the Tarim Basin. Turpan is more economically prosperous and views China more positively than the rebellious Kashgar, which is the most anti-China oasis. Uyghurs in Turpan are treated leniently and favourably by China with regards to religious policies, while Kashgar is subjected to controls by the government. In Turpan and Hami, religion is viewed more positively by China than religion in Kashgar and Khotan in southern Xinjiang. Both Uyghur and Han Communist officials in Turpan turn a blind eye to the law and allow religious Islamic education for Uyghur children. Celebrating at religious functions and going on Hajj to Mecca is encouraged by the Chinese government, for Uyghur members of the Communist party. From 1979-1989, 350 mosques were built in Turpan. Han, Hui, and the Chinese government are viewed much more positively by Uyghurs specifically in Turpan, with the government providing better economic, religious, and political treatment for them.\n\nThe Uyghur terrorist organization East Turkestan Islamic Movement's magazine \"Islamic Turkistan\" has accused the Chinese \"Muslim Brotherhood\" (the Yihewani) of being responsible for the moderation of Hui Muslims and the lack of Hui joining terrorist jihadist groups in addition to blaming other things for the lack of Hui Jihadists, such as the fact that for more than 300 years Hui and Uyghurs have been enemies of each other, no separatist Islamist organizations among the Hui, the fact that the Hui view China as their home, and the fact that the \"infidel Chinese\" language is the language of the Hui.\n\nHui Muslim drug dealers are accused by Uyghur Muslims of pushing heroin on Uyghurs. Heroin has been vended by Hui dealers. There is a typecast image in the public eye of heroin being the province of Hui dealers. Hui have been involved in the Golden Triangle drug area.\n\nIn Tibet, the majority of Muslims are Hui people. Hatred between Tibeans and Muslims stems from events during the Muslim warlord Ma Bufang's rule in Qinghai such as Ngolok rebellions (1917–49) and the Sino-Tibetan War, but in 1949 the Communists put an end to the violence between Tibetans and Muslims, however, new Tibetan-Muslim violence broke out after China engaged in liberalization. Riots broke out between Muslims and Tibetans over incidents such as bones in soups and prices of balloons, and Tibetans accused Muslims of being cannibals who cooked humans in their soup and of contaminating food with urine. Tibetans attacked Muslim restaurants. Fires set by Tibetans which burned the apartments and shops of Muslims resulted in Muslim families being killed and wounded in the 2008 mid-March riots. Due to Tibetan violence against Muslims, the traditional Islamic white caps have not been worn by many Muslims. Scarfs were removed and replaced with hairnets by Muslim women in order to hide. Muslims prayed in secret at home when in August 2008 the Tibetans burned the Mosque. Incidents such as these which make Tibetans look bad on the international stage are covered up by the Tibetan exile community. The repression of Tibetan separatism by the Chinese government is supported by Hui Muslims. In addition, Chinese-speaking Hui have problems with Tibetan Hui (the Tibetan speaking Kache minority of Muslims).\n\nThe main Mosque in Lhasa was burned down by Tibetans and Chinese Hui Muslims were violently assaulted by Tibetan rioters in the 2008 Tibetan unrest. Tibetan exiles and foreign scholars like ignore and do not talk about sectarian violence between Tibetan Buddhists and Muslims. The majority of Tibetans viewed the wars against Iraq and Afghanistan after 9/11 positively and it had the effect of galvanizing anti-Muslim attitudes among Tibetans and resulted in an anti-Muslim boycott against Muslim owned businesses. Tibetan Buddhists propagate a false libel that Muslims cremate their Imams and use the ashes to convert Tibetans to Islam by making Tibetans inhale the ashes, even though the Tibetans seem to be aware that Muslims practice burial and not cremation since they frequently clash against proposed Muslim cemeteries in their area.\n\nSince the Chinese government supports and backs up the Hui Muslims, the Tibetans deliberately attack the Hui Muslims as a way to demonstrate anti-government sentiment and because they have a background of sectarian violence against each other since Ma Bufang's rule due to their separate religions and ethnicity and Tibetans resent Hui economic domination.\n\nJingtang Jiaoyu was a system of Islamic education developed during the Ming dynasty among the Hui, centered around Mosques. The Arabic and Persian language Thirteen Classics were part of the main curriculum. In the madrassas, some Chinese Muslim literature like the Han Kitab were used for educational purposes. Liu Zhi (scholar) wrote texts to help Hui learn Arabic. Persian was the main Islamic foreign language used by Chinese Muslims, followed by Arabic.\n\nHui Muslim Generals like Ma Fuxiang, Ma Hongkui, and Ma Bufang funded schools or sponsored students studying abroad. Imam Hu Songshan and Ma Linyi were involved in reforming Islamic education inside China.\n\nMuslim Kuomintang officials in the Republic of China government supported the Chengda Teachers Academy, which helped usher in a new era of Islamic education in China, promoting nationalism and Chinese language among Muslims, and fully incorporating them into the main aspects of Chinese society. The Ministry of Education provided funds to the Chinese Islamic National Salvation Federation for Chinese Muslim's education. The President of the federation was General Bai Chongxi (Pai Chung-hsi) and the vice president was Tang Kesan (Tang Ko-san). 40 Sino-Arabic primary schools were founded in Ningxia by its Governor Ma Hongkui.\n\nImam Wang Jingzhai studied at Al-Azhar University in Egypt along with several other Chinese Muslim students, the first Chinese students in modern times to study in the Middle East. Wang recalled his experience teaching at madrassas in the provinces of Henan (Yu), Hebei (Ji), and Shandong (Lu) which were outside of the traditional stronghold of Muslim education in northwest China, and where the living conditions were poorer and the students had a much tougher time than the northwestern students. In 1931 China sent five students to study at Al-Azhar in Egypt, among them was Muhammad Ma Jian and they were the first Chinese to study at Al-Azhar. Na Zhong, a descendant of Nasr al-Din (Yunnan) was another one of the students sent to Al-Azhar in 1931, along with Zhang Ziren, Ma Jian, and Lin Zhongming.\n\nHui Muslims from the Central Plains (Zhongyuan) differed in their view of women's education than Hui Muslims from the northwestern provinces, with the Hui from the Central Plains provinces like Henan having a history of women's Mosques and religious schooling for women, while Hui women in northwestern provinces were kept in the house. However, in northwestern China reformers started bringing female education in the 1920s. In Linxia, Gansu, a secular school for Hui girls was founded by the Muslim warlord Ma Bufang, the school was named Shuada Suqin Wmen's Primary School after his wife Ma Suqin who was also involved in its founding. Hui Muslim refugees fled to northwest China from the central plains after the Japanese invasion of China, where they continued to practice women's education and build women's mosque communities, while women's education was not adopted by the local northwestern Hui Muslims and the two different communities continued to differ in this practice.\n\nGeneral Ma Fuxiang donated funds to promote education for Hui Muslims and help build a class of intellectuals among the Hui and promote the Hui role in developing the nation's strength.\n\nAfter secondary education is completed, Chinese law then allows students who are willing to embark on religious studies under an Imam.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7725295", "categories": [], "title": "History of Islam in China"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725299", "text": "SR Merchant Navy Class 35028 Clan Line\n\n35028 \"Clan Line\" is a Southern Railway rebuilt Merchant Navy 4-6-2 class locomotive. \n\n35028 was built at Eastleigh Works in 1948. After a few weeks running in, it was allocated first to Dover and then to Stewarts Lane shed in London, from where it worked heavy trains on the trunk routes to the South East Channel ports, frequently working the prestige expresses, \"Golden Arrow\" and \"The Night Ferry\". After rebuilding in 1959, it was initially allocated to Nine Elms shed, from where it headed such trains as the \"Bournemouth Belle\" and the \"Atlantic Coast Express\". While working the \"A.C.E.\" in 1961, it was unofficially timed at passing Axminster. On 2 July 1967, \"Clan Line\" hauled a 'farewell special' from London Waterloo to Bournemouth and back and thus ended its BR career.\n\nOne month after finishing the 'farewell special', \"Clan Line\" was bought by the Merchant Navy Locomotive Preservation Society from BR for the sum of £3,850. The Group had wanted 35022 \"Holland America Line\", but it was sent to Barry to be scrapped before they could purchase it, so the Group purchased \"Clan Line\" instead. (35022 \"Holland America Line\" would eventually be preserved and is now owned by Royal Scot Locomotive & General Trust.) \"Clan Line\" was one of the first preserved locomotives to participate in steam specials, and in 1974 hauled its first revenue-earning train in preservation from Basingstoke to Westbury.\nIn the 1990s, 35028 \"Clan Line\" was chosen as the locomotive to haul the UK-based Venice Simplon Orient Express (VSOE) using preserved Pullman carriages, with tours around Kent, the Surrey Hills, Oxford and Bath and Bristol. In the early 2000s, when the locomotive went for overhaul, LNER Class A3 4472 \"Flying Scotsman\" took over those trains. \n\nAs of January 2015, \"Clan Line\" is based at Stewarts Lane TMD, Battersea. It returned to main line operation in October 2006, when it resumed VSOE duties and hauling the occasional enthusiast specials, although in 2012, the locomotive was used on a number of \"Cathedrals Express\" trips, filling in for locomotives that were not available for the tours.\n\n35028 \"Clan Line\" was the first Merchant Navy class locomotive to operate on the main line in preservation. It has also visited the 2009 Eastleigh open day with 35005 \"Canadian Pacific\".\n\nOn 7 December 2018 \"Clan Line\" hauled the royal train taking the Prince of Wales to Cardiff.\n\n", "id": "7725299", "categories": ["Standard gauge steam locomotives of Great Britain", "Preserved Southern Railway steam locomotives"], "title": "SR Merchant Navy Class 35028 Clan Line"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725319", "text": "Gamboa, Panama\n\nGamboa is a small town in the Republic of Panama. It was one of a handful of permanent Canal Zone townships, built to house employees of the Panama Canal and their dependents. The name Gamboa is the name of a tree of the quince family.\n\nGamboa is located on a sharp bend of the Chagres River at the point which feeds Lake Gatun. Just south of Gamboa, Lake Gatun and the Chagres meet the Culebra Cut (Gaillard Cut) where the Canal cuts through the Continental Divide. Thus, though Gamboa is closer to the Pacific side of Panama, its watershed is on the Atlantic side. A single lane iron and wood bridge that crossed the Chagres and was the only road access to Gamboa for most of its history. This bridge is still intact today, but in October of 2018 a new multi-lane bridge was completed near the original site. \n\nGamboa was built near the site of the former village of Santa Cruz. Three miles further up the Chagres river was the town of Las Cruces, where 19th-century travelers and cargo disembarked from river barges to take the overland Las Cruces trail by mule. After the completion of the Panama Railroad in 1855, the railroad ran near the area, but made no stops and no PR maps list any towns in Gamboa's present location.\n\nPresent-day Gamboa was built in 1911, during Canal construction. It was initially populated by \"silver roll\" (i.e., Afro-Antilleans and other non-US, non-white) workers and their dependents. These initial settlers, counted at around 700, had previously lived in the construction areas between the former towns of Tabernilla and Gorgona, which were covered by Lake Gatun as Canal construction advanced. No Americans were counted amongst the town's first inhabitants.\n\nBy 1914, at the conclusion of Canal construction activities, Gamboa's population decreased to 173 and the town consisted of a police station, a four-family house which had been brought in from the former town of Empire, and a two-family house brought from the former town of Culebra, and several old railroad box cars used to house silver roll employees. The first commissary, operated by a division of the Panama Canal Company/Canal Zone Government, also operated out of three box cars.\n\nAfter many years of studies and debates, and lobbying by Dredging Division Superintendent John G. Claybourn, the Panama Canal Company moved its Dredging Division from the town of Paraíso to Gamboa in 1936. In 1933, when a three-man board appointed by Canal Zone Governor J.L. Schley studied the feasibility of moving the Dredging Division to Gamboa, the population was 251, including just 10 Americans. The first Dredging Division families began moving into the newly built town of Gamboa in September 1936. Within a year, the town's population jumped to 1,419 and by 1942, the town reached its peak population—3,853.\n\nThe new residents of Gamboa built their civic center with their own hands and funds. It was initially used as a USO to entertain troops stationed in nearby hills, but later became headquarters of the Civic Council. The Civic Council and Gamboa's residents also built the Gamboa Golf and Country Club, on the Gamboa Ridge, overlooking the Chagres river. The men in the town hammered, sawed and poured concrete while the women brought picnic lunches and tended barbecues. The Club was officially opened on January 1, 1939 and eventually included a 9-hole golf course.\n\nGamboa, like most Canal Zone towns, had its own commissary, post office, school, churches (five of them), railroad station, fire station and gas station. For much of the town's history, Gamboa's non-US, non-white population lived in a separate part of town called Santa Cruz. This included 50 families moved from La Boca in October 1954 when that town was depopulated and converted into a white housing area.\n\nNot all Gamboans worked for the Dredging Division. Because of its remote location and distance from other Canal Zone towns, Gamboa was seen as less desirable than some of the other Panama Canal Company/Canal Zone Government's townships, and since housing in the Canal Zone was assigned based on seniority, many of the new arrivals to the \"Zone\", as it became known to its residents (Zonians), were initially assigned housing here before becoming eligible for housing in other towns. U.S. military personnel and their dependents lived in Gamboa during the 1940s due to the shortage of housing on the local military bases. U.S. personnel continued living in Gamboa until the total withdrawal of U.S. troops from Panama in 1999.\n\nOver time as the Panama Canal Company/Canal Zone Government began to transfer operations to Panama following the 1977 Panama Canal Treaties, some of the services offered in Gamboa were shut down. The most visible closures were the commissary and movie theater, which were boarded up throughout the 1980s. The demise of the Panama Railroad in the late 1980s further cut the town off from the rest of the Canal area.\n\nGamboa's elementary school was built in 1937 by the Panama Canal Company/Canal Zone Government Division of Schools. It consisted of 3 classrooms, a library, and principal's office upstairs, with a kindergarten classroom underneath. The school was transferred to the Department of Defense Dependents Schools (DoDDS) in 1979 after the abolition of the Canal Zone and its government. That school year, its total enrollment was 115. Three U.S. grade school teachers were employed and classes were paired up, with first and second grade sharing one room, third and fourth grade sharing a room, and fifth and sixth grade sharing the third classroom. A physical education teacher was also employed for the school's gymnasium, which was inside a separate building. Since December 1980, a small space underneath the school has operated as a mini-shopette. Total enrollment for the 1987-1988 school year was down to 53. In June 1988, with a projected enrollment of just 40 students for the 1988-1989 school year, DoDDS closed the Gamboa Elementary School. Starting in 1988, all students were bused to Balboa Elementary. Following Operation \"Just Cause\" in December 1989, the school building was used as a local headquarters for U.S. Military Police.\n\nGamboa's golf course became a Boy Scout camp for several years, but remained inactive in the last years of the Treaty reversion period.\n\nThe town of Gamboa is still inhabited, but as a shadow of its former self, maintained, but without the vibrancy and civic spirit it once enjoyed. Many of its houses are not inhabited and several public buildings are underutilized. It remains the primary headquarters of the Dredging Division of the Panama Canal Authority (formerly PCC).\n\nThe Dredging Division's docks are used by light ferries to reach the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI) facilities at Barro Colorado Island.\n\nGamboa is home to caymans, crocodiles, iguanas, and several hundred bird species. Given its location at the \"end of the road\" and the single road connecting it to the rest of the Canal Zone, Gamboa is adjacent to significant tracts of relatively undisturbed rainforest. A trail that follows an old pipeline (\"Pipeline Road\") is considered one of the best birding hikes in Panama. It is one of the premiere bird watching sites in all of Central America. Many amateur birdwatchers join ornithologists for yearly bird counts held near Gamboa by the Audubon Society of Panama.\n\nThe old Spanish colonial era Las Cruces Trail used to carry precious metals and supplies between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans passes near Gamboa, though parts of it are now underwater.\n\nIn the movie \"The Tailor of Panama\" the character played by Pierce Brosnan stays at the Gamboa Rainforest Resort, and has a meal at a waterside restaurant in Gamboa. In the background of the opening shot of this sequence, you can see the iron and wood bridge that leads to Gamboa, with an ocean liner behind it.\n\nThe Gamboa Rainforest Resort is a 5-star hotel located in Gamboa. The Resort has developed 2 Indian reservations (Embera and Wounaa) an aerial tram to visit the jungle canopy, and many other attractions which now draw many people to the otherwise sleepy town.\n\n\n", "id": "7725319", "categories": ["Panama Canal Zone Townships"], "title": "Gamboa, Panama"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725325", "text": "Barathrum: V.I.T.R.I.O.L.\n\nBarathrum: V.I.T.R.I.O.L. is the debut album of American black metal band Absu. It was released on December 1, 1993 via Gothic Records, and re-released in 1994 by Osmose Productions with three bonus tracks. It would be reissued once more in 2011 by The Crypt Records, as a boxset containing 3 discs — the first disc contains the album itself plus the three live tracks from the Osmose Productions re-issue; the second disc contains alternate versions of the tracks \"Descent to Acheron\", \"An Equinox of Fathomless Disheartenment\", \"The Thrice Is Greatest to Ninnigal\", \"Infinite and Profane Thrones\" and \"Fantasizing to the Third of the Pagan Visions\"; and the third disc contains the \"Temples of Offal\" EP, the \"Return of the Ancients\" demo, and the track \"Abhorred Xul\", composed when Absu was still called Azathoth.\n\n\"Barathrum\" is a word in Latin (derived from the Greek βάραθρον — \"várathron\") meaning \"gulch\", or \"deep, dark hole\", while \"V.I.T.R.I.O.L.\" is an acronym for \"Visita Interiora Terræ Rectificando Invenies Occultum Lapidem\", an alchemic motto that can be roughly translated as \"Visit the interior of the earth and [by] purifying [yourself] you will find the hidden stone\".\n\n\n\n", "id": "7725325", "categories": ["Absu (band) albums", "1993 debut albums"], "title": "Barathrum: V.I.T.R.I.O.L."}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725335", "text": "Cầu Hai\n\nCầu Hai is a town in Thừa Thiên–Huế Province, Vietnam. Located in the middle between Huế and Đà Nẵng cities, Cầu Hai is on the bank of the Cầu Hai river and at the foot of Bạch Mã National Park.\n\nIn 1968, few months before the Tết Offensive, the Cầu Hai bridge was blown up by the North Vietnamese Army and Viet Cong. The bridge was later rebuilt.\n\nOver the Cầu Hai Bay is the My A village. My A was famous for her main route that goes across the village that has coconut trees planted from generations. Villagers fled to the United States during the communist rule. \n", "id": "7725335", "categories": ["Populated places in Thua Thien-Hue Province"], "title": "Cầu Hai"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725336", "text": "Cherish (film)\n\nCherish is a 2002 American comedy-drama film written and directed by Finn Taylor. It premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 14, 2002 and had a limited theatrical release June 7 of that same year. The Region 1 DVD was originally released June 1, 2004 and then re-released on October 25, 2005 with new cover art.\n\nZoe Adler (Robin Tunney), is a shy, eccentric and misunderstood computer animator who has a love for 1970s and 80s pop music. While heading home after a few drinks one night, she is forced into her car by a stalker who steers her into a police officer, knocking him off his bicycle and killing him.\n\nWhen Zoe is put under house arrest with a story no one believes and an electronic bracelet that keeps her homebound with an ever-increasing list of mandatory and repetitive tasks she must complete or risk going to jail, she must find a way to clear her name. With the help of Daly (Tim Blake Nelson), an officer responsible for checking her bracelet every week who falls for her, a downstairs neighbor, and neighborhood kids, Zoe finds her stalker and tries to clear her name.\n\n", "id": "7725336", "categories": ["2002 films", "American comedy-drama films", "2000s comedy-drama films", "American independent films", "Films set in the San Francisco Bay Area", "Films set in San Francisco", "American films", "English-language films", "Films about stalking"], "title": "Cherish (film)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725337", "text": "List of Axis personnel indicted for war crimes\n\nThe following is a list of people suspected of committing war crimes on behalf of Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, Imperial Japan or any of the Axis powers during World War II. It does not include people from Allied countries who were suspected of treason.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMalmedy massacre trial\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n (trials held in Tokyo)\n\nOther trials were held at various locations in the Far East, by the United States, Australia, China, the United Kingdom, and other Allied countries. In all, a total of 920 Japanese military and naval personnel and civilians were executed following World War II.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nImportant Dutch collaborators sentenced by the special tribunals in The Netherlands in connection with the Second World War.\nThere have been 14,562 convictions pronounced by the special tribunals, and 49,920 sentences by courts. The special tribunals sentenced in more than 10,000 cases to prison sentences of 3 years or more, and in 152 cases condemned the guilty persons to death, many of which were commuted to life sentences or less. The other courts decided in 30,784 cases on internment of 1 up to 10 years and in 38,984 cases on forfeit of certain civil rights.\n\nThe list below is derived from the list published on:\nhttps://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lijst_van_Nederlandse_collaborateurs_in_de_Tweede_Wereldoorlog\n\nThat list has been adapted in that the persons who simply disappeared after the war, who were eliminated by the resistance during the war or who committed suicide before being convicted, have been taken off the list.\n\nThat list mentions as sources:\n\n• Het Grote Gebod, Gedenkboek van het verzet in LO en LKP, deel II, Kok Kampen, 1979\n\n• A.D. Belinfante. In plaats van bijltjesdag. De geschiedenis van de bijzondere rechtspleging na de Tweede Wereldoorlog. Assen: Van Gorcum, 1978 \nThese persons are:\n\nBastiaan J. van der Aa – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJohan Alsema – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nPaul M.C.A. America – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to 15 years\nJacobus J.C. Baas – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nDirk F.K. Bakker – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nSjimon de Bakker – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJan van Barneveld – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to 15 years\nHerman P.M. Bartelsman – Death penalty, executed 06-03-1947\nWilhelm J. Bekkers – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nAntonie Berends – Life sentence, later commuted to 22 years\nJohan Berendsen – Death penalty, executed 02-05-1947\nJacobus P. Besteman – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nHerbertus Bikker – Death penalty, later commuted to life sentence\nSietse Blaauw – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nGeesien Bleeker – Life sentence\nManus H.L.W. Blokzijl – Death penalty, executed 16-03-1946\nHeinrich Boere – Death penalty in absentia, later commuted to life sentence\nJohan Boesveld – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJan Boogaard – Death penalty, executed 01-03-1947\nSander Borgers – Life sentence\nOtto Bouman – Death penalty, executed 12-02-1949\nChristoffel Bout – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJ. F. Boxmeer – Life sentence\nMozes Brandon Bravo – 8 years\nGerardus C. van Bree – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nAdriaan Breed – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nWilliam H. B. Briedé – Death penalty in absentia\nJan H. Brouwer – Life sentence\nGeert van Bruggen – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nLouwerens de Bruin – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nSiert Bruins – Death penalty in absentia\nLucas Bunt – Death penalty, later commuted to life sentence\nAnthonie J. du Burck – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nDerk E. Buter – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nDouwe Capelle – 20 years\nPieter R. Cieraa – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nSera de Croon – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nPieter D. Daalhuizen – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nRudolf W. Dahmen von Buchholz – Life sentence\nAns van Dijk – Death penalty, executed 14-01-1948\nAnton Doorewaard – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nPieter Drent – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJohannes A.H.M. Driehuis – Death penalty, executed 20-06-1947\nSander van Droffelaar – Death penalty, executed 16-11-1949\nEvert C. Drost – Death penalty, executed 28-07-1949\nWillem l'Ecluse – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJohannes T.S. van Efferden – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nHendrikus M. Eggers – Death penalty, executed 03-05-1945\nDirk Eijkelboom – Death penalty, executed 06-07-1948\nKlaas C. Faber – Death penalty, later commuted to life sentence\nPieter J. Faber – Death penalty, executed 10-07-1948\nJacob Eduard Feenstra – Death penalty, executed 29-08-1946\nDirk M. Franken – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJoseph H.J. von Frijtag Drabbe – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to 15 years\nGerardus Ganzevles – Death penalty, executed 05-02-1947\nCornelis van Geelkerken – Life sentence, later omgezet in 20 years\nRobert van Genechten – Suicide after conviction to death 13-12-1945\nPetrus J. Gerrits – Death penalty, executed 29-05-1947\nJohannes M. Groin de Planque-Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nWillem van Groningen – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nHenri E. de Gruijter – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nK. A. Hamer – Life sentence\nChristiaan Harmse – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nAbraham Harrebomée – Death penalty, executed 03-05-1947\nBarend Heegers – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nCornelis P. Heil – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJulius Herdtman – Death penalty, executed 26-01-1951\nMartin Hinse – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nHendrik W. Hofman – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nDirk Hoogendam – Death penalty in absentia, later commuted to life sentence\nWillem J.H. Houthuys – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nMarinus Jansen – Death penalty, executed 19-02-1949\nJacob de Jonge – Life sentence\nJacobus van Joolen – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nAbraham Kaper – Death penalty, executed 29-06-1949\nCornelis J. Kaptein – Death penalty, executed 21-07-1949\nJan Kielema – 8 years, released after 5 years\nAbraham Kipp – Death penalty in absentia, later commuted to life sentence. \nH. S. Klinkenbijl – Life sentence\nLeendert C. Klootwijk – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nHubert Koehler – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nCornelis C. Koker – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nWillem Komdeur – 20 years\nCornelis Kooiman – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nSije E. Koopmans – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nFrederik W. Koot – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nCornelis A. Kooymans – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nDiederik van der Kraan – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to 12 years\nHendrik van der Kraan – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nHarm Krikke – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nE. P. Krist – Life sentence\nJohannes H.C. Krom – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nHendrik Kromhout – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nWillem Hendrik Kuik – 15 years\nMaarten Kuiper – Death penalty, executed 30-08-1948\nPieter Kuiper – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nMeinte van de Kuur – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJan Lamberts – Death penalty, executed 16-11-1949\nFransoos E. Lammers – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nCornelis Leemhuis – Life sentence, later commuted to 10 years\nDirk W.J. Lensink – Life sentence\nJohannes F.P. van Lieshout – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJan van Limburg – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJohannes H. Loesberg – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJacob Luitjens – Life sentence in absentia \nHendrik Luyendijk – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nAdrianus C. Man in 't Veld – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nWilly Markus – Declared insane, no conviction \nJan Meekhof – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nHendrik Melker – Life sentence\nJan H. Meppelink – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nIsaac Metz – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nFrederik Meyer – Death penalty, executed 28-03-1947\nCornelis J. Minck – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nEduard G. Moesbergen – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nWouter C. Mollis – Death penalty, executed 04-02-1949\nHermanus G. Mons – 15 years\nGerrit R. Mozer – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nZwier W. Mulder – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nAnton A. Mussert – Death penalty, executed 07-05-1946\nLuwe Muusse – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nWillem van der Neut – Death penalty later commuted to life sentence\nCornelis J.D. Neven – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nLeendert G. de Noo – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nEppe Oosting – 20 years\nTeunis Pâques – Death penalty, executed 03-05-1945\nJ. van der Pelk – Life sentence\nJacobus P. Philippa – Death penalty in absentia, pardoned 1978 after 4 y. detention\nAndries Pieters – Death penalty, executed 21-03-1952\nGerben S. van der Ploeg – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nGerard D. van de Pol – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nWillem A. Polak – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nWillem J. Pons – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nAbraham Puls – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nMatthijs A. Ridderhof – Death penalty, executed 01-03-1947\nJacob Rigter – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJ.J.A. van Roessel – Life sentence\nGerard Rollema – Death penalty, executed 06-02-1947\nFrederik T.C. Rosier – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nKurt J. Roters – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJan J. Rutgers – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nHendricus C. Saatrübe – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nWarner Salomons – Death penalty, executed 03-05-1945\nGerrit Sanner – Death penalty, executed 01-05-1947\nPieter Schaap – Death penalty, executed 26-06-1949\nPetrus A. van Schaik – 20 years\nBranca Simons – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nDouwe J.N. Slaaf – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nBart Slop – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJacobus van der Sluis – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nP. J. Smid – Life sentence\nArien Smit – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nPetrus H. Smit – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nToon Soetebier – Death penalty in absentia, latter commuted to life sentence\nM. Spaans – Life sentence\nWillem A. van der Spek – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nEgbert Springelkamp – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nAdrianus L.W. Steentjes – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nJacobus Suykerbuyk – Death penalty, executed 23-03-1949\nAntoine Touseul – Death penalty, latter commuted to life sentence\nBernard H. Trap – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nAdriana Valkenburg – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nHendrikus W. Verwayen – Death penalty, executed 26-06-1947\nJan A. Visser – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nBruno B. Vlugt – Life sentence\nMijndert Vonk – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nAbel de Vries – Life sentence\nAnton van der Waals – Death penalty, executed 27-01-1950\nTjeerd van der Weide – Death penalty, executed 06-06-1947\nBetje Wery – Life sentence\nGijsbertus C. van Wessum – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nPieter Wichers – Death penalty, executed 02-06-1947\nWillem M. Willemsen – Death penalty, after pardon commuted to life sentence\nHendrik J. Woudenberg – 20 years\n\nThe following Germans/Austrians were sentenced to death and executed:\n\n\nWell-known are also those known as the \"Breda four\":\nsource: https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lijst_van_personen_die_veroordeeld_zijn_wegens_oorlogsmisdaden\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7725337", "categories": ["Nazi-related lists", "Japanese war crimes"], "title": "List of Axis personnel indicted for war crimes"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725352", "text": "Daydreamer (David Cassidy song)\n\n\"Daydreamer\" is a song by the American singer David Cassidy.\n\nWritten by Terry Dempsey and produced by Rick Jarrard, \"Daydreamer\" was Cassidy's second and final No.1 single in the UK Singles Chart, spending three weeks at the top of the chart in October and November 1973. The song was a double-A side with a cover version of Harry Nilsson's \"The Puppy Song\" on the B-side. The single was the 10th best selling single in the UK in 1973.\n\nThe song also appears on David Cassidy's 1973 UK No.1 album \"Dreams Are Nuthin' More Than Wishes\".\n\nCilla Black recorded a version of this song in 1974. The French singer Claude François also recorded a version of this song called \"Le mal aimé\" which was a hit in France.\n\nThe song's only chart appearance in the US was by Gino Cunico in 1976 on Arista Records. This cover, which hit No. 43 on the \"Billboard\" Easy Listening Chart, added a bridge repeating the phrase \"ain't that a shame\", echoing the lyrical variation introduced by Cilla Black in her 1974 treatment of the song.\n", "id": "7725352", "categories": ["David Cassidy songs", "Bell Records singles", "1973 singles", "UK Singles Chart number-one singles", "Song recordings produced by Rick Jarrard"], "title": "Daydreamer (David Cassidy song)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725360", "text": "List of Allied traitors during World War II\n\nThe following is a list of people from Allied countries suspected of treachery or treason during World War II. It is not a list of Nazi war criminals.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7725360", "categories": ["People of World War II"], "title": "List of Allied traitors during World War II"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725364", "text": "Shiri Maimon (album)\n\nShiri Maimon is the debut album by Israeli singer Shiri Maimon, released on September 2, 2005, and certified gold just a few months after its release. It combines elements of pop and soul.\n<br>The first single from the album, and shiri's first commercial single ever, \"Ad Shetavin Oti\" (\"Until You Understand Me\"\", Hebrew: עד שתבין אותי) was released on November 2004.\n\n", "id": "7725364", "categories": ["2005 albums"], "title": "Shiri Maimon (album)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725369", "text": "The Sun of Tiphareth\n\nThe Sun of Tiphareth is the second full-length studio album by black metal band Absu. It was released on Osmose Productions in 1995.\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7725369", "categories": ["Absu (band) albums", "1995 albums"], "title": "The Sun of Tiphareth"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725383", "text": "Stop-loss insurance\n\nStop-loss insurance is insurance that protects insurers against large claims. Stop-loss policies take effect after a certain threshold has been exceeded in claims.\n\nInsurance companies themselves, as well as self-insuring employers, purchase stop-loss coverage for a premium to protect themselves. In the case of a participant reaching more than the specific (or \"individual\") stop-loss deductible ($300,000, for example), the insurer will reimburse the insured (the company, not the participant) for the remainder of the claim to be paid over that deductible amount.\n\nThere is also typically an aggregate-claims deductible, which is applied to all paid claims combined. For all claims at or below their specific stop-loss level, if the sum of these are more than the aggregate stop loss level, then the insurer will reimburse the insured for the difference.\n\nInsurance companies and health and benefits consultants typically use mathematical models analyzing historical claims data to project expected stop loss premiums into the future to control for stop loss coverage costs and estimate the value of coverage PEPM (per employee per month) or PEPY.\n\nCompanies providing health insurance for their employees through a self-insured plan often subscribe to stop loss policies in order to protect themselves against catastrophic claims. The organization which takes the insurance policy is called the insured and the employees and other people who are covered through the policy are called participants. Most of the time there is an annual limit for the stop loss amount for each participant and an aggregate amount for each policy year. The premium is calculated for each employee for each month. The premium is based on the number of participants, age of the participants and various other information.\n\nAt Lloyd's of London, Personal Stop Loss (PSL) is a type of insurance policy which limits the losses of names all of whom did (and some of whom still do) underwrite with unlimited liability. Provided that the PSL responds to the claims made on it, the unlimited liability thereby becomes to some extent limited.\n\nPSL policies are not always available at all. Some are available as \"mutuals\" and, in the event that the market suffers large losses, may be unable to respond to any great extent.\n\n", "id": "7725383", "categories": ["Health insurance"], "title": "Stop-loss insurance"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725386", "text": "Backdraft (drink)\n\nThe Backdraft is a cocktail that is noted for its elaborate preparation and potency. Named after the backdraft which occurs in some fire situations, this drink produces a similar condition on purpose using flammable alcoholic drinks and an enclosing container, such as an upside down pint glass. Below is a typical procedure for producing one variation of the Backdraft drink. The combination of warm alcohol, followed by inhaling vaporized alcohol, and then finishing with a highly spiced warm alcohol, makes the drinking of this drink difficult, and while it tends not to have an immediate effect (since it is drunk quickly), the warmth of the alcohol and the vapor, make the concentration and absorption of alcohol into the bloodstream quicker than other drinks, and produces a more profound impact.\n\nThe procedure listed below is a typical illustration of how the drink is presented, and the steps used to produce the backdraft effect. The alcohols listed can be substituted with others, as there are various recipes. However, the steps of this procedure are required to be taken in this order to produce what is known as a classic backdraft drink.\n\nA classic Backdraft is prepared by pouring equal amounts of Drambuie and Grand Marnier into a snifter. The mixture is set alight, and after a few seconds, extinguished by having the imbiber seal the top of the glass with their hand, although often a coaster or saucer is used instead. Once the flame is out, a straw is inserted, keeping as much of the seal intact as possible to contain the vapors.\n\nBoth the liquid and the vapors are then consumed through the straw.\n\nDrambuie and Grand Marnier will be extremely difficult to ignite, if not impossible, so backdrafts are commonly done with 1 part Grand Marnier and 1 part 151.\n\nThe procedure is as follows:\n\n\nWhen a gas is heated, its volume increases. It will displace cooler gases as it expands. If this is done in a partially enclosed space, and the vessel allowed to be full of hot gas, when the heat is taken away, the gases cool and as they do, the amount of liquids that the gas can hold will decrease. Therefore, most of the moisture and alcohol held in the gas will condense. As the gas cools, it decreases in volume, and the pressure drops. Thus when the flaming alcohol in a backdraft is covered with a pint glass over a saucer, the dense, cold air is replaced with less dense, warm air with a lot of alcohol vapour held in it. As the oxygen flow to the fire is restricted, the remaining oxygen is used up and the fire in the pint glass goes out, removing the heat source. The alcohol-laden warm air now in the glass cools and begins to create a pressure difference. The air outside the pint glass forces its way into the partially evacuated pint glass and is responsible for pushing any liquid at the outside bottom of the pint glass further inside (as the seal of the glass and the saucer is not perfect) as it begins to equalise the pressure difference. Once the majority of the liquid is inside the upside down pint glass, sometimes further air can be seen to bubble up into the glass. At some point an equilibrium will occur, where the pressure difference between inside and outside of the glass is equal to the pressure of the column of liquid held up inside, and this will hold the liquid inside the glass. Sometimes, when a good seal is made, the pressure difference between the inside and the outside of the glass exerts a great enough force that when the glass is lifted, the saucer will remain stuck to its underside.\n\nWhen the pint glass is removed, ice is immediately added, thus causing the condensation of the alcohol vapour, creating a white mist in the glass by a process fairly similar to the formation of contrails. By covering the glass with the hand, this vapour is trapped until it is extracted by the process of inhalation, usually through a straw.\n\n", "id": "7725386", "categories": ["Flaming drinks", "Cocktails with liqueur"], "title": "Backdraft (drink)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725400", "text": "San Sebastián International Film Festival\n\nThe San Sebastián International Film Festival (SSIFF, ; ) is an annual FIAPF A category film festival held in the Spanish city of Donostia-San Sebastián in September, in the Basque Country.\n\nSince its creation in 1953 it has established itself as one of the most important cinema festivals in the world, being one of the 14 \"A\" category competitive festivals accredited by the FIAPF. It has hosted several important events of the history of cinema, such as the international premieres of \"Vertigo\", by Alfred Hitchcock (who attended the Festival) and \"Melinda and Melinda\" by Woody Allen and the European premier of \"Star Wars\". Actors and directors such as Bette Davis, Gloria Swanson, Gregory Peck, Glenn Ford, Elizabeth Taylor, Audrey Hepburn, Charlton Heston, Robert De Niro, Meryl Streep, Richard Gere, Michael Douglas, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Mel Gibson, Demi Moore, Naomi Watts and Brad Pitt have attended the festival since its inception. It was the first festival attended by Roman Polanski and has helped advance the professional careers of Francis Ford Coppola or Pedro Almodóvar, for instance.\n\nIn the current competitive context of international festivals, San Sebastián, which has one of the lowest budgets, has established itself as the most important in Spain and the Spanish-speaking countries.\n\nThe festival was founded in 1952. Although it was originally intended to honour Spanish language films, films of other languages became eligible for consideration in 1955, when the festival was specialized in color films. It has been acknowledged by the FIAPF as an A category festival since 1957, with the exception of the 1980–1984 period, when no major awards were given.\n\nThese are the main sections of the festival:\n\nAn international jury evaluates the films in the Official Section and awards the following prizes:\n\nThe following are the main awards for films in the pararell sections:\n\n", "id": "7725400", "categories": ["Film festivals in Spain", "San Sebastián International Film Festival", "Festivals in San Sebastián", "Recurring events established in 1953"], "title": "San Sebastián International Film Festival"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725411", "text": "I Love You Love Me Love\n\n\"I Love You Love Me Love\" is a song by English glam rock singer Gary Glitter. Written by Glitter with Mike Leander and produced by Mike Leander (unusually in monophonic sound), \"I Love You Love Me Love\" was Glitter's second number-one single on the UK Singles Chart, spending four weeks at the top of the chart in November 1973, and establishing itself as one of the top 10 best-selling singles of 1973 in the UK. It reached No. 2 in both Ireland and Australia.\n\n\n\nIt is Glitter's most successful entry in the UK Singles Chart (it entered the chart at number-one and had a 14-week run in the Top 40), earning him the first platinum record (which at the time certified sales of 1 million copies) awarded to a British artist. It has sold 1.14 million copies in the UK as of November 2012, although many former fans have since either destroyed, binned or donated their unwanted copies to charity shops.\n", "id": "7725411", "categories": ["Songs written by Mike Leander", "1973 songs", "Gary Glitter songs", "1973 singles", "Tommy James songs", "Fantasy Records singles", "1976 singles", "Song recordings produced by Mike Leander", "Songs written by Gary Glitter", "UK Singles Chart number-one singles"], "title": "I Love You Love Me Love"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725412", "text": "Reboost\n\nReboost is the process of boosting the altitude of an artificial satellite, to increase the time until its orbit will decay and it re-enters the atmosphere.\n\n", "id": "7725412", "categories": [], "title": "Reboost"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725415", "text": "Lim kinase\n\nLIM kinase-1 (LIMK1) and LIM kinase-2 (LIMK2) are actin-binding kinases that phosphorylate members of the ADF/cofilin family of actin binding and filament severing proteins. ADF/cofilin are the only substrates yet identified for the LIM kinases. LIM kinases directly phosphorylate and inactivate members of the cofilin family, resulting in stabilization of filamentous (F)-actin. Lim kinases are activated by signaling through small GTPases of the Rho family. Upstream, LIMK1 is regulated by Pak1, and LIMK2 by the Rho-dependent kinase ROCK. Lim Kinases are activated by PAK (p21-activated kinase). Recent work indicates that LIMK activity is also modulated by HIV-1 viral proteins.\n\nThere are approximately 40 known eukaryotic LIM proteins, so named for the LIM domains they contain. LIM domains are highly conserved cysteine-rich structures containing 2 zinc fingers. Although zinc fingers usually function by binding to DNA or RNA, the LIM motif probably mediates protein–protein interactions. LIM kinase-1 and LIM kinase-2 belong to a small subfamily with a unique combination of 2 N-terminal LIM motifs and a C-terminal protein kinase domain. LIMK1 is likely to be a component of an intracellular signaling pathway and may be involved in brain development. LIMK1 hemizygosity is implicated in the impaired visuospatial constructive cognition of Williams syndrome. \n", "id": "7725415", "categories": [], "title": "Lim kinase"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725444", "text": "Wooden Leather\n\nWooden Leather is the second studio album by American hip hop sextet Nappy Roots from Kentucky. It was released on August 26, 2003 via Atlantic Records. Recording sessions took place at Tree Sound and The Zone in Atlanta, at Emerald Sound Studios in Nashville, at QDIII Soundlab, Blakeslee Recording Company, Larrabee West and Cherokee Studios in Los Angeles, at Manhattan Center Studios in New York City, at Skip Taylor Recording and at Unsung Studios. The production was handled by several high-profile record producers such as David Banner, Jake and the Phatman, Kanye West, Lil Jon, Mike Caren, Mike City, Mr. DJ, Needlz, Raphael Saadiq, along with Brian Kidd, Briss, Freddie \"Mac\" McIntosh, Organic, Sol Messiah, Troy Johnson, Mr. Collipark and Kevin Freeman. It features guest appearances from Anthony Hamilton, Raphael Saadiq, Aura J, Benjamin \"Black\" Bush, and the Ying Yang Twins.\n\nThe album peaked at number 12 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and at number 9 on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart in the United States. Its lead single, \"Roun' the Globe\" featuring background vocals from Black of Playa, made it to #96 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 singles chart.\n", "id": "7725444", "categories": ["Albums produced by Mike City", "Albums produced by Needlz", "Albums produced by Kanye West", "Albums produced by Lil Jon", "Nappy Roots albums", "Albums produced by David Banner", "2003 albums", "Atlantic Records albums"], "title": "Wooden Leather"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725451", "text": "Protector (RWS)\n\nThe Protector Remote Weapon Station is a remotely controlled weapons station (RWS) that can be mounted to vehicles and stationary platforms. It is manufactured by Kongsberg Defence Systems of Norway and Thales Group of France.\n\nThe system consists of a stabilized firing platform, a fire-control system and control grips. Several weapons can be mounted to the platform, such as:\n\nThe system also features 4 M6 Smoke Grenade Dischargers. Specifications (excluding weapons and ammo):\n\nSeveral versions of Protector have been developed with more than 15,000 units sold around the world in service with more than a dozen countries.\n\n\nM153 Protector is designed to meet CROWS II requirement. Specifications (excluding weapons and ammo):\n\nProtector Lite is a lightweight version for 7.62 mm machine gun with 200 rounds of ammunition carried. Specifications (excluding weapons and ammo):\n\nProtector Super Lite is the lightest version currently available, and is a lightweight, man-portable system that can be operated both remotely and manually. The Super Lite is fully stabilized and adaptable to any wheeled, tracked or stabilized platform, including tripods. Specifications (excluding weapons and ammo):\n\nProtector Medium Caliber RWS is designed as a vehicle turret for 20 to 50 mm autocannons, with coaxial machinegun of 5.56 to 7.62 mm. Specifications (including weapons and ammo):\n\nSea Protector is developed for naval applications. Specifications (excluding weapons and ammo):\n\nDynamic performance\n\nProtector Dual RWS is an extension of the existing RWS family that includes the use of two weapons. This innovative system also provides a dual user functionality (Gunner / Commander). The coaxial weapon is mounted on the same axis as the main gun, the system automatically compensates for the parallel axis between the sights and the axis. Switching between weapons is intuitive and happens by simply pushing a button depending on mission need.\n\nProtector with Non Lethal Effectors is designed to close a capability gap in peacekeeping, peace enforcement and humanitarian operations as well as today's asymmetric warfare.\n\nProtector Nordic is claimed by the Norwegian remote weapon station developer as the most technically advanced Protector RWS ordered to date, and is a key element in the foundation for cooperation in the Nordic material programs. The extended functionality includes the Day Camera VIS 95 with 95 field of view and the Infrared Aim Laser (850 nm), both developed by Kongsberg.\n\nProtector NM221 includes internal ammunition feed.\n\n", "id": "7725451", "categories": ["Vehicle weapons", "Goods manufactured in Norway", "Kongsberg Gruppen", "Remote weapon stations"], "title": "Protector (RWS)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725457", "text": "Tin ceiling\n\nA tin ceiling is an architectural element, consisting of a ceiling finished with plates of tin with designs pressed into them, that was very popular in Victorian buildings in North America in the late 19th and early 20th century. They were also popular in Australia where they were commonly known as pressed metal ceilings or Wunderlich ceilings (after the main Australian manufacturer Wunderlich). They were also used in South Africa. \n\nTin ceilings were introduced to North America as an affordable alternative to the exquisite plasterwork used in European homes. They gained popularity in the late 1800s as Americans sought sophisticated interior design. Durable, lightweight and fireproof, tin ceilings were appealing to home and business owners alike as a functionally attractive design element that was readily available. Important critics such as John Ruskin, George Gilbert Scott, Charles Eastlake and William Morris debated the implications of faux materials. These critics believed it was morally wrong and deceptive to imitate another material and blamed the degradation of society towards the \"art of shamming\" rather than honesty in architecture. Nevertheless, tin ceilings lasted longer than plaster ones and were easier to clean. They encapsulated ideas of democracy, making such decoration available to the middle class majority who supported the machine production.\n\nDecorative metal ceilings were first made of corrugated iron sheets, appearing in the United States by the early 1870s. It was during the late Victorian era that thin rolled tin-plate was being mass-produced. Tinplate was originally made from dipping iron in molten tin in order to prevent rust. Later, steel replaced iron as the more cost-effective solution. Tinplate was not the only sheet metal used to make stamped ceilings. Copper, lead (known as ternplate) and zinc were other common Architectural metals in the industry. \n\nBetween 1890 and 1930, approximately forty-five companies in the United States marketed metal ceilings; most were in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New York, located along railroad lines that served as the main routes for delivering the pressed metal products directly to contractors. The Wheeling Corrugating Company out of Wheeling, West Virginia, became the leading tin ceiling manufacturer in the late 1800s. At that time, Wheeling Corrugating was a large steel mill that also made products from their steel sheets such as roofing and siding. \n\nSheets of tin were stamped one at a time using rope drop hammers and cast iron molds. Using this method of production, metal was sandwiched between two interlocking tools. The top tool, or \"ram,\" was lifted up by a rope or chain, then dropped down onto the bottom die, smashing into the metal that was underneath and permanently embedding intricate patterns into the tin. Someone who saw the merit of this modern machine for its artistic potential was Frank Lloyd Wright. In his articles, \"The Art and Craft of the Machine\" and \"In the Cause of Architecture,\" the series published by \"Architectural Record,\" Wright elaborates on his modern theory of science and art and the role of the machine in the future of art.\n\nTin ceilings were traditionally painted white to give the appearance of hand-carved or molded plaster. They were incorporated into residential living rooms and parlors as well as schools, hospitals and commercial businesses where painted tin was often used as wainscoting.\n\nIn the 1930s, tin ceilings began to lose their popularity and steel materials became scarce because of the effort to collect scrap metal during WWII. Many sheet metal companies began making other products in order to stay in business. In the 21st century, some renewed interest has been shown in tin ceilings. The increase in interest has stemmed from businesses that were renovating and an interest to return to the nostalgia of the turn of the century. Still to this today there exists a manufacturing company by the name of W.F. Norman Corporation that produces original tin ceilings and ornaments from the same rope drop hammers as it once did in 1898. Several other companies offer conventional tin ceilings as well as panels made to fit into a drop-ceiling grid.\n\nTin ceilings were built to last, and in the absence of prolonged moisture damage leading to corrosion, they usually did; however, the wear and tear over the hundred years since the heyday of tin has led to a burgeoning restoration industry. Magazines such as The Old-House Journal were created to offer articles about restoration, repair and installation practices for historic preservation of tin ceilings. \n\nEnvironmental hazards from the lead paint used on turn of the century tin ceilings mean that this is a job for experts in the field. Often restoration is achieved by simply stripping old paint, treating the metal with a protective base coat, patching minor damaged areas, and repainting. In some cases, where small sections of a ceiling have been damaged, partial restoration is needed. Panels can be easily replaced through companies that still manufacture original design components. If, however, a ceiling requires a historic pattern that is no longer in production, good quality panels from the existing ceiling may be used to create a mold and new customized tin can be pressed. \n\nIf full restoration is needed, meaning no part of the existing ceiling remains structurally sound, a professional can help design a new ceiling appropriate for the period and structure using existing molds or creating reproductions based on photographic evidence or architectural drawings. This latter method can be extremely expensive, and is not cost effective, due to the cost of making a custom mold for the panel and usually the metal trim that was also used with the original project.\n\nMore detailed information for repair and replacement of decorative metal ceilings can be found in the National Park Service Technical Preservation Services.\n\nSeveral companies now offer hand-painted finishes for metalwork, as well as a more permanent look that can be achieved with powder-coated finishes. For the low end of the market, imitation panels are pressed from plastic or aluminum. Tin is now fashionably used for art work, back splashes, cabinet faces, wainscoting and much more. For over 100 years the tin panel was made with nail rails around the outside of the panel, designed to overlap each other. Panels were nailed into wood furring strips which were prevalent prior to the invention of plywood. Today, nail up panels can be easily brad nailed or hand nailed, into plywood without the need for the original furring strips. There is also a patented interlocking tin panel that will screw directly into existing drywall/popcorn/plaster ceilings, without the need for extensive plywood installation. Tin panels today are made in and sizes for easier handling and one-person installation. Today, most tin ceiling manufacturers actually use recycled blackplate steel in a thickness of only .010 or 1/100th of an inch. There are some manufacturers who also use actual tin plated steel, which is simply the blackplate steel with a thin coating of bright tin plate adhered to the base metal. Other manufacturers utilize aluminum, as it is rustproof and will last a lifetime.\n\nThis finish is also an option with dropped ceilings.\n", "id": "7725457", "categories": ["Architectural elements", "Building materials"], "title": "Tin ceiling"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725460", "text": "The Third Storm of Cythraul\n\nThe Third Storm of Cythraul is the third full-length studio album by black metal band Absu. It was released on Osmose Productions in 1997.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7725460", "categories": ["1997 albums", "Absu (band) albums"], "title": "The Third Storm of Cythraul"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725472", "text": "Costin Sports Roadster\n\nThe Costin Sports Roadster is a lightweight mid-engined sports car that was intended for initial launch in the mid-1990s. A prototype test bed chassis was finished in 1991 at Costin Ltd in Wales.\n\nIt was designed by the aerodynamicist Frank Costin. Costin had previous associations with Vanwall, Lotus, Maserati, and DTV for race car chassis designs. Another car was finished in the mid nineties with revised body styling but was not road registered until recently. In total 6 chassis were constructed and 2 bodies. The company Costin Ltd went into liquidation following unsuccessful attempts to find funding for the venture.\n\n", "id": "7725472", "categories": ["Cars of England"], "title": "Costin Sports Roadster"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725473", "text": "Brijmohan Lall Munjal\n\nBrijmohan Lall Munjal (1 July 1923 – 1 November 2015) was an Indian businessman, founder and patriarch of India's largest two wheeler company the Hero MotoCorp\n\nMunjal was born in 1923 at Kamalia, district Toba Tek Singh in unpartitioned Punjab, British India. Kamalia is now in Pakistan. He was from a simple middle-class Arora/Khatri family. After completing his formal education, he worked at the Army Ordnance Factory, before moving his base to India after partition.\n\nIn 1954, Hero Cycles moved up the value chain by making a shift from supplying to manufacturing handlebars, front forks and chains. In 1956, the Punjab Government issued tender notices for twelve new industrial licenses to make bicycles in Ludhiana. Munjal and his brothers participated in the bid and won the contract. Hero Cycles was registered as a large-scale industrial unit. with capital partly financed by the Government of Punjab.\n\nIn 1961, Rockman Cycles Industries was established to manufacture bicycle chains and hubs. Under Munjal's leadership, Hero Cycles was the first company to export bicycles on such a large scale. In 1975, the company had become the largest bicycle manufacturer in India. By 1986, Hero Cycles entered the \"Guinness Book of Records\" as the largest manufacturers of bicycles in the world.\n\nBefore entering into a joint venture with the Honda Motors, Munjal started a Majestic Auto and started manufacturing of the Hero Majestic Moped. To manufacture motor cycles in 1984, the Hero Group started a joint venture with Hero Honda and established a plant at Dharuhera, Haryana. The Hero Group became so large that by 2002 it had sold 8.6 million bicycles, and was producing 16,000 motorcycles a day.\n\nAfter the Hero Honda Motors joint venture broke up in August 2011, Hero's board of directors agreed to pay royalties to Honda to continue to produce the Hero Honda until 2013, due to the popularity and ubiquity of the Hero Honda brand in the Asia Pacific region as Hero Honda Brand was trusted among the best in the Product reliability and customer satisfaction.\n\nThe separation gave an opportunity for Hero to expand its market globally with the name Hero MotoCorp. Previously, it had not been permitted for Hero Honda to sell their bikes outside the Asia Pacific and in countries where Honda operated.\n\nIn the first week of August 2013, the company recorded a benchmark never before reached by an Indian two-wheel vehicle industry manufacturer, by producing 50 million bikes.\n\nBrijmohan was married to Santosh and had five children: Raman Kant (deceased), Suman Kant, Pawan Kant, Sunil Kant and a daughter, Geeta Anand. He died on 1 November 2015 in South Delhi after a short illness.\n\n\n", "id": "7725473", "categories": ["Recipients of the Padma Bhushan in trade and industry", "Indian billionaires", "Hero Honda motorcycles", "1923 births", "Businesspeople from Ludhiana", "2015 deaths", "Businesspeople from Punjab, India", "People from Toba Tek Singh District", "Automotive industry in India"], "title": "Brijmohan Lall Munjal"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725499", "text": "Nedap\n\nNedap (N.V. Nederlandsche Apparatenfabriek; ) is a Dutch multinational technology company. Its principal place of business is Groenlo, the Netherlands. It has subsidiaries in Belgium, France, Germany, Great Britain, the Netherlands and Spain, and has been quoted on the Euronext exchange since 1947.\n\nThe company focuses on developing and supplying solutions in the fields of security (identification of persons, animals and goods) and electronic control units through NFC.\n\nNedap's activities are organized in the following Market Groups: Lighting Controls, Identification Systems, Education, Election Systems, Healthcare, Libraries, Livestock Management, Locker Management Systems, Power Supplies, Retail Support, Security Management and Specials. \n\nAccording to its website, Nedap was established in 1929, and has been listed on the stock exchange since 1947 and, with more than 700 employees, Nedap is active around the world.\nAccording to Nedap's annual report for 2014, it had the following shareholders with a shareholding of >3%: \n\n", "id": "7725499", "categories": ["Oost Gelre"], "title": "Nedap"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725516", "text": "Helton (name)\n\nHelton is a surname of Anglo-Saxon origin. It is derived from the family that lived in the village of Elton in Cheshire, England. The motto is \"Artibus et armis\". Variants of the name include:\n\"Eltone\", \"Elton\", and \"Ellton\". People with the Helton surname or given name include:\n\n\n\n", "id": "7725516", "categories": ["English given names"], "title": "Helton (name)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725518", "text": "Fukuoka Takachika\n\nViscount was a Japanese statesman of the Meiji period.\n\nFukuoka was born in Tosa District in present-day Kōchi Prefecture, and served the Yamauchi daimyō of Tosa as a domain official. Together with fellow Tosa \"samurai\" Gotō Shōjirō, he went to Kyoto in 1867 to convince \"shōgun\" Tokugawa Yoshinobu to return power peacefully to the Emperor, thus bringing about the Meiji Restoration.\n\nAfter the Meiji Restoration, while serving as a \"San'yo\" (senior councillor), he helped draft the text of the Charter Oath which set the tone and direction for the new Meiji government. In the new government, he concurrently served in a variety of offices, including Political system Affairs Officer and Parliament System Examination Officer. It was in this capacity that he was afterwards, asked to help draft the \"Seitaisho,\" which set up the organizational structure of the early Meiji government.\n\nIn 1870, Fukuoka was transferred back to Kōchi and focused on the reforms of domain's administration, just prior to the abolition of the han system.\n\nIn 1872, Fukuoka re-entered the central government as \"Taifu\" (Senior Vice Minister) of Education and of Justice, but resigned in 1873 due to his opposition to the government policy with regards to the \"Seikanron\" debate on the invasion of Korea\n\nIn 1880, Fukuoka returned to the government as a member of the \"Genrōin\" and later served as Minister of Education, \"Sangi\" (Councillor), chairman of the \"Sanjiin\" (legislative advisory council).\n\nHe also served as Privy Councilor. In 1884, he was elevated to the rank of \"shishaku\" (viscount).\n\n\n", "id": "7725518", "categories": ["People of Meiji-period Japan", "1835 births", "Kazoku", "Education ministers of Japan", "Samurai", "People from Kōchi Prefecture", "Meiji Restoration", "People from Tosa Domain", "1919 deaths"], "title": "Fukuoka Takachika"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725519", "text": "Korean tea\n\nKorean tea is a beverage consisting of boiled water infused with leaves (such as the tea plant \"Camellia sinensis\"), roots, flowers, fruits, grains, edible mushrooms, or seaweed. \n\nAccording to the \"Record of Gaya\", cited in the \"Memorabilia of the Three Kingdoms\", the legendary queen Heo Hwang-ok, a princess of Ayodhya, brought the \"Camellia sinensis\" (var. \"assamica\") tea plant from India to Korea and planted it on Baegwolsan, a mountain that borders the city of Changwon. In practice, however, Labrador tea and fruit teas, such as magnolia berry tea and goji berry tea, were more widely used in the Samhan Era instead.\n\nIt is a widely held belief that the systematic planting of tea bushes began with the introduction of Chinese tea culture by Buddhist monks some centuries later. Some of the earliest Buddhist temples in Korea, such as Bulgapsa, Bulhoesa, and Hwaeomsa, claim to be the birthplace of Korean tea culture. The import of Chinese tea products started during the reign of Queen Seondeok of Silla (631‒647), when two types of tea bricks, \"jeoncha\" () and \"dancha\" (), were imported from the Tang Empire. In 765, a Buddhist monk is said to have presented an offering of the tea to King Gyeongdeok and the Buddha. \"Camellia sinensis\" tea plants spread throughout the country in 828, when King Heungdeok received seeds from the Tang Empire and sent them to be planted on the Jirisan mountain. Tea was usually offered to the Buddha, as well as to the spirits of deceased ancestors.\n\nTea culture continued to prosper during the Goryeo Dynasty. Tea offering was a part of the biggest national ceremonies, such as Yeondeunghoe and Palgwanhoe, and tea towns were formed around temples. During the reign of King Myeongjong (1131‒1202), Seon-Buddhist manners of ceremony prevailed. Jeong Mongju and other scholars enjoyed tea poetry, \"dasi\" (), and tea meetings, \"dahoe\" (). The state of \"daseonilchi\" (; \"tea and \"seon\" in accord\") was eulogized.\n\nDuring the Joseon Dynasty (1392-1910), Korean tea culture underwent secularization . The royal family and aristocracy used tea for simple rites, a practice referred to as \"darye\" (, \"tea rite\"), which is often translated as \"etiquette for tea\". Towards the end of the Joseon Dynasty, commoners adopted the practice of using tea for ancestral rites. The word \"charye\" (, \"tea rite\"), cognate to \"darye\", now refers to \"jesa\" (ancestral rite). In the past, the two terms were synonymous, as ancestral rites often involved offerings of tea to the ancestors. Wedding ceremonies also included tea offerings. The practice of packing tea into small cakes, which lost popularity in China during the 14th century, continued in Korea until the 19th century.\n\nIn 1895, King Gojong of the Korean Empire used coffee for the first time. In 1896, grocery stores began to have tea rooms as annexes, and the first modern tea house was established in 1924.\n\nAlthough tea from the \"Camellia sinensis\" plant is not as popular as coffee in South Korea - with the annual South Korean tea consumption at per capita, compared to for coffee - grain teas are served in many restaurants instead of water. Herbal and fruit teas are commonly served, both hot and cold.\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7725519", "categories": [], "title": "Korean tea"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725520", "text": "Tara (Absu album)\n\nTara is the fourth album by black metal band Absu. It was released on May 23, 2001, by Osmose Productions. A remastered edition was supposed to come out in September 2007, but was delayed until March 2009. It contains the \"In the Eyes of Ioldánach\" EP as bonus tracks. Early promotional material for the album stated that Mike Scaccia of Rigor Mortis/Ministry fame would contribute to the album but that did not occur. In addition, King Diamond did contribute vocals to the album but could not be credited due to contractual restrictions. He is credited as Masthema Mazziqim, a pseudonym used by the singer of Dolmen, a band that eventually became Absu.\n\nAll music composed by Shaftiel, except \"Tara\" and \"Tara (Recapitulation)\" by Sir Don Shannon.\n\nPhase One: \"Ioldanach's Pedagogy\"\nPhase Two: \"The Cythraul Klan's Scrutiny\"\n\n\n\n", "id": "7725520", "categories": ["Absu (band) albums", "2001 albums"], "title": "Tara (Absu album)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725524", "text": "Colour centre\n\nThe colour centre is a region in the brain primarily responsible for visual perception and cortical processing of colour signals received by the eye, which ultimately results in colour vision. The colour centre in humans is thought to be located in the ventral occipital lobe as part of the visual system, in addition to other areas responsible for recognizing and processing specific visual stimuli, such as faces, words, and objects. Many functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies in both humans and macaque monkeys have shown colour stimuli to activate multiple areas in the brain, including the fusiform gyrus and the lingual gyrus. These areas, as well as others identified as having a role in colour vision processing, are collectively labelled visual area 4 (V4). The exact mechanisms, location, and function of V4 are still being investigated.\n\nThe primary part of the visual cortex, (V1), is located in the calcarine sulcus, and is the first cortical area involved in visual processing. It receives visual input from the lateral geniculate nucleus, which is located in the thalamus. V1 sends the visual information received from the LGN to other extrastriate cortex areas for higher order processing. This higher order processing includes the recognition of shapes, motion, and colour.\n\nV1 has multiple areas that are colour-sensitive, which indicates that colour processing is not limited to one area. According to a paper by Dr Robert Shapley, V1 has an important role in colour perception. fMRI experimental results showed that V1 has two kinds of colour sensitive neurons: single-opponent and double-opponent cells. These cells are integral in the opponent process of interpreting colour signals. Single-opponent neurons respond to large areas of colour. This is advantageous for recognizing large colour scenes and atmospheres. In comparison, double opponent cells respond to patterns, textures, and colour boundaries. This is more important for perceiving the colour of objects and pictures. The double-opponent cells are receptive to opposite inputs from different cone cells in the retina. This is ideal for identifying contrasting colours, such as red and green. [1] Double-opponent cells are particularly important in computing local cone ratios from visual information from their receptive fields.\n\nSingle opponent colour-sensitive neurons can be divided into two categories depending on the signals they receive from the cone cells: L-M neurons and S/(L+M) neurons. The three types of cone cells, small (S), medium (M), and long (L), detect different wavelengths across the visible spectrum. S cone cells can see short wavelength colours, which corresponds to violet and blue. Similarly, M cells detect medium wavelength colours, such as green and yellow, and L cells detect long wavelength colours, like red. L-M neurons, also called red-green opponent cells, receive input from long wavelength cones opposed by input from medium wavelength cones. S/(L+M) neurons receive input from S-cells and is opposed by a sum of the L and M-cell inputs. S/(L+M) neurons are also called blue-yellow opponent cells. The opposition between the colours allows the visual system to interpret differences in colour, which is ultimately more efficient than processing colours separately.\n\nThe primary visual cortex V1 sends visual information to the extrastriate cortical areas for higher order visual processing. These extrastriate cortical areas are located anterior to the occipital lobe. The main ones are designated as visual areas V2, V3, V4, and V5/MT. Each area can have multiple functions. Recent findings have shown that the colour centre is neither isolated nor traceable to a single area in the visual cortex. Rather, there are multiple areas that possibly have different roles in the ability to process colour stimulus.\n\nAnatomical and physiological studies have established that the colour centre begins in V1 and sends signals to extrastriate areas V2 and V4 for further processing. V4 in particular is an area of interest because of the strength of the colour receptive fields in its neurons. V4 was initially identified in macaque monkey visual cortex experiments. Originally, it was proposed that colour was selectively processed in V4. However, this hypothesis was later rejected in favour of another hypothesis which suggested that V4 and other areas around V4 work together to process colour in the form of multiple colour selective regions. After identification of V4 as the colour-selective region in macaque monkeys, scientists began searching for a homologous structure in the human cortex. Using fMRI brain imaging, scientists found three main areas stimulated by colour: V1, an area in the ventral occipital lobe, specifically the lingual gyrus, which was designated as human V4, or hV4, and another area located anteriorly in the fusiform gyrus, designated as V4α.\n\nThe purpose of V4 has changed dynamically as new studies are performed. Since V4 responds strongly to colour in both macaque monkeys and humans, it has become an area of interest to scientists. The V4 area was originally attributed to colour selectivity, but new evidence has shown that V4, as well as other areas of the visual cortex, are receptive to various inputs. V4 neurons are receptive to a number of properties, such as colour, brightness, and texture. It is also involved in processing shape, orientation, curvature, motion, and depth.\n\nThe actual organization of hV4 in the cortex is still being investigated. In the macaque monkey, V4 spans the dorsal and ventral occipital lobe. Human experiments have shown that V4 only spans the ventral portion. This led to distinguishing hV4 from the macaque V4. A recent study from Winawer et al. analysing fMRI measurements to map the hV4 and ventral occipital areas showed variances between subjects used for hV4 mapping was at first attributed to instrumentation error, but Winawer argued that the sinuses in the brain interfered with fMRI measurements. Two models for hV4 were tested: one model had hV4 completely in the ventral side, and the second model had hV4 split into dorsal and ventral sections. It was concluded that it was still difficult to map the activity of hV4, and that further investigation was required. However, other evidence, such as lesions in the ventral occipital lobe causing achromatopsia, suggested that the ventral occipital area plays an important role in colour vision.\n\nThe search for the human equivalent of V4 led to the discovery of other areas that were stimulated by colour. The most significant was an area anterior in the ventral occipital lobe, subsequently named V4α. Further fMRI experiments found that V4α had a different function than V4, but worked cooperatively with it. V4α is involved in a number of processes, and is active during tasks requiring colour ordering, imagery, knowledge about colour, colour illusions, and object colour.\n\nThe V4 and V4α areas are separate entities, but because of their close proximity in the fusiform gyrus, these two areas are often collectively called the V4-complex. Research into the V4-complex discovered that different chromatic stimulations activated either the V4 or the V4α area, and some stimulation parameters activated both. For example, naturally coloured images activated V4α more powerfully than V4. Unnaturally coloured images activated both V4α and V4 equally. It was concluded that the two sub-divisions co-operate with each other in order to generate colour images, but they are also functionally separate.\n\nA study by Nunn et al. on the activation of the V4-complex in people with visual synaesthesia from hearing spoken words was used to predict the location of the colour centre. Synaesthesia is the phenomenon where a sensory stimulus produces an automatic and involuntary reaction in a different sensation. In this study, people who would see colours upon hearing words were studied to see if the colour reaction could be traced to a specific cortical area. fMRI results showed that the left fusiform gyrus, an area consistent with V4, was activated when the subjects spoke. They also found a simultaneous activation of V4α. There was little activity in areas V1 and V2. These results validated the existence of the V4-complex in humans as an area specialized for colour vision.\n\nV2, also called the prestriate cortex, is believed to have a small role in colour processing by projecting signals from V1 to the V4-complex. Whether or not colour selective cells are present in V2 is still being investigated. Some optical imaging studies have found small clusters of red-green colour selective cells in V1 and V2, but not any blue-yellow colour selective cells. Other studies have shown that V2 is activated by colour stimuli, but not colour after images.[8] V4 also has feedback on V2, suggesting that there is a defined network of communication between the multiple areas of the visual cortex. When GABA, an inhibitory neurotransmitter, was injected into V4 cells, V2 cells experienced a significant decrease in excitability.\n\nFunctional magnetic resonance imaging, or fMRI for short, has been key in determining the colour selective regions in the visual cortex. fMRI is able to track brain activity by measuring blood flow throughout the brain. Areas that have more blood flowing to them indicates an occurrence of neuronal activity. This change in blood flow is called haemodynamic response. Among the benefits of fMRI includes dynamic, real-time mapping of cortical processes. However, fMRI cannot track the actual firing of neurons, which happen on a millisecond timescale, but it can track the haemodynamic response, which happens on a seconds timescale. This method is ideal for tracking colour selective neurons because colour perception results in a visual after-image that can be observed in the neurons, which lasts about 15 seconds.\n\nSakai et al. used fMRI to observe whether activation of the fusiform gyrus correlated with the perception of colour and the after image. The subjects in the Sakai study were placed in the fMRI machine and were subsequently subjected to various visual stimuli. A series of three images were shown to subjects while fMRI was used to focus on the haemodynamics of the fusiform gyrus. The first image was a pattern of six coloured circles. The next two images were achromatic. One of the images had a grey cross, and the other image had the same six circles as the first image, except they were six shades of grey that correlated with the coloured images. The subjects were cycled between the circle and cross images. During the cross images, the subjected perceived an after-image. The results of the experiment showed that there was a significant increase of activity in the fusiform gyrus when the subject viewed the colour image. This provided more evidence to the existence of the colour centre outside of the primary visual cortex.\n\nCerebral achromatopsia is a chronic condition where a person is unable to see colour, but they are still able to recognize shape and form. Cerebral achromatopsia differs from congenital achromatopsia in that it is caused by damage to the cerebral cortex as opposed to abnormalities in the retinal cells. The search for the colour centre was motivated by the discovery that lesions in the ventral occipital lobe led to colour blindness, as well as the idea that there are area specializations in the cortex. Many studies have shown that lesions in the areas commonly identified as the colour centre, such as V1, V2, and the V4-complex lead to achromatopsia. Cerebral achromatopsia occurs after injury to the lingual or fusiform gyrus, the areas associated with hV4. These injuries include physical trauma, stroke, and tumour growth. One of the primary initiatives to locating the colour centre in the visual cortex is to discover the cause and a possible treatment of cerebral achromatopsia.\n\nThe extent of the symptoms and the damage is different from person to person. If a person has complete achromatopsia, then their entire visual field is devoid of colour. A person with dyschromatopsia, or incomplete achromtopsia, has similar symptoms to complete achromatopsia, but to a lesser degree. This can occur in people who had achromatopsia, but the brain recovered from the injury, restoring some colour vision. The person may be able to see certain colours. However, there are many cases where there is no recovery. Finally, a person with hemiachromatopsia see half of their field of vision in colour, and the other half in grey. The visual hemifield contralateral to a lesion in the lingual or fusiform gyrus is the one that appears grey, while the ipsilateral visual hemifield appears in colour. The variance in symptoms emphasizes the need to understand the architecture of the colour centre in order to better diagnose and possible treat cerebral achromotopsia.\n", "id": "7725524", "categories": ["Cerebrum"], "title": "Colour centre"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725557", "text": "Robin Malmkvist\n\nRobin Malmkvist (born 13 November 1987) is a Swedish footballer who plays for Östers IF.\n\nHe started his career in Alvesta GIF youth team in 1996, staying with the club until 2000 when then moved to Östers IF. He debuted for Öster in 2005, at the age of 17, in Superettan, helping the club reach Allsvenskan. The time in Allsvenskan was only 1 year and Öster returned to Superettan, however, Robin missed large part of the season due to a cheekbone injury and saw the club get relegated again. Öster was promoted back to Superettan in 2009, however, Robin decided to leave the club and signed for Halmstads BK, which were looking for a replacement for departing Magnus Bahne. Malmkvist played the 2011 season on loan at Tromsø, as backup to Marcus Sahlman. Malmkvist played Norwegian and European cup matches for Tromsø, before getting his league debut on 10 July coming on as a first-half substitute for an injured Sahlman away to Vålerenga, a match Tromsø lost 2–0.\n\nHe has represented the Swedish U-21 national team in 2 games.\n\n", "id": "7725557", "categories": ["Assyriska FF players", "Association football goalkeepers", "Living people", "Sweden under-21 international footballers", "Östers IF players", "Eliteserien players", "Tromsø IL players", "Superettan players", "Halmstads BK players", "Swedish footballers", "1987 births", "Allsvenskan players"], "title": "Robin Malmkvist"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725560", "text": "Eva Berglund\n\nEva Berglund (born 14 February 1984) is a Swedish swimmer from Jönköping, representing Jönköpings SS. \n\nShe has participated in some international championship in open water long distance events. She became the first Swedish swimmer competing in a European Championship in Open Water on 26 July 2006 in Lake Balaton, Hungary, during the 2006 European Championships in Aquatics. She finished 11th on the 5 km race. She took part in the 2007 World Championships (5 and 10 km) and the 2008 Olympic Games (10 km).\n\n", "id": "7725560", "categories": ["1984 births", "Female long-distance swimmers", "Swedish female swimmers", "Living people", "Olympic swimmers of Sweden", "Swimmers at the 2008 Summer Olympics", "Jönköpings SS swimmers"], "title": "Eva Berglund"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725565", "text": "Bahram (horse)\n\nBahram (1932–1956) was an Irish-bred, English-trained Thoroughbred racehorse. In a career which lasted from July 1934 until September 1935 he was undefeated in nine races. The leading British two-year-old of 1934, he went on to take the Triple Crown in 1935 by winning the 2000 Guineas Stakes, Epsom Derby and St. Leger Stakes. He was retired to stud at the end of the year. After a promising start to his stud career in Britain he was exported to the United States, where he had moderate success before being exported again to Argentina.\n\nBahram was a bay horse with a white star and strip foaled at the HH Aga Khan III's stud farm on The Curragh, Ireland. He was by the highly successful stallion Blandford, who sired four Derby winners and was British Champion sire on three occasions. His dam, Friar’s Daughter, was inbred to St Simon in the third and fourth generations. Friar’s Daughter won one small race, but was a good broodmare who produced eleven winners of over £58,000' including Dastur, who finished runner-up in all three legs of the Triple Crown in 1932. Bahram stood 16.2 hands high, had a good temperament, and was described by equine experts as having flawless conformation. The Aga Khan originally registered the colt as \"Bahman\" but renamed him in honour of his cousin, who was killed in the torpedoing of the SS Sussex in 1916. Bahram was trained by Frank Butters for the Aga Khan at Newmarket in England. His regular rider was the veteran jockey Frederick Fox (1888–1945).\n\nBahram made his debut in the valuable National Breeders Produce Stakes at Sandown Park Racecourse in July for which he started a 20/1 outsider. He won by a neck from his more fancied stable companion Theft, who had won the Windsor Castle Stakes at Royal Ascot in a result which reportedly stunned the crowd. Later in July, Bahram won the Rous Memorial Stakes at Goodwood before being sent to York for the Gimcrack Stakes in which he ran lazily and had to be driven out to win by a length from Consequential.\n\nIn the autumn he was sent to Newmarket where he won the Boscawen Stakes before contesting the Middle Park Stakes, one of the year's most prestigious races for juveniles, which he won in a record time of 1:11.2. In the Free Handicap, a rating of the season's best two-year-olds, Bahram was awarded top weight of 133 pounds, a pound ahead of his stable companions Theft and Hairan.\n\nBy the spring of 1935 Bahram had grown into a handsome, impressive horse with a placid, lazy temperament. He missed an intended run at Newmarket's Craven meeting in April and made his first appearance of the season in the 2000 Guineas. Ridden by Freddie Fox he started at odds of 7/2 in a field of sixteen runners. He won \"comfortably\" by one and a half lengths from Theft, with Sea Bequest two lengths away in third.\n\nA month after his win at Newmarket, Bahram started 5/4 favourite for the Derby at Epsom. The race was run in bright sunshine, despite previous heavy rain, and was attended by a crowd estimated at 500,000 including King George V who was celebrating his Silver Jubilee. Bahram was towards the rear of the field in the early stages but was always travelling well. Fox moved him up to third place at Tattenham corner before accelerating into the lead early in the straight. He won very comfortably by two lengths from Robin Goodfellow and Field Trial, with Theft in fourth. Later in June, Bahram started at odds of 1/8 in the St. James's Palace Stakes at Royal Ascot and won from Portfolio. In August, Bahram's training was delayed by the \"coughing epidemic\" which struck many British stables in late summer.\n\nAt Doncaster in September, Bahram started 4/11 favourite for the St. Leger Stakes in his bid to become the first winner of the traditional Triple Crown since Rock Sand in 1903 (Pommern, Gay Crusader and Gainsborough had won wartime \"Triple Crowns\" but these included substitute races run at Newmarket). Since Rock Sand, four colts had attempted the feat but St. Amant (sixth in 1904), Minoru (4th in 1909), Manna (tenth in 1925) and Cameronian (tenth and last in 1931) had all been well-beaten at Doncaster. He was ridden by Charlie Smirke, Fox having sustained serious injuries in a fall the previous day. Bahram won very easily by five lengths from Solar Ray, with Buckleigh a further three lengths away in third. After the race Smirke claimed that Bahram could have won carrying \"12 Stone and two riders\".\n\nOn Bahram's retirement, he was described as the \"Horse of the Century\" by his owner, an assessment with which the \"Daily Mail\" concurred, although \"The Times\" regarded him as inferior to Windsor Lad.\n\nIn their book \"A Century of Champions\", John Randall and Tony Morris rated Bahram the twenty-eighth best horse of the 20th Century and the seventh best Derby winner, behind Sea-Bird, Hyperion, Mill Reef, Nijinsky, Shergar and Windsor Lad.\n\nBahram was reportedly even lazier at home than he was on the racecourse, making him a difficult horse to assess. His trainer, Frank Butters, admitted that \"I never knew how good he was\".\n\nAt the end of the 1935 racing season Bahram was retired to Egerton Stud in Newmarket where he stood at a service fee of 500 guineas per mare. With just two crops racing, Bahram became the second leading sire in 1940 and leading juvenile sire of 1941. Among his English progeny were Big Game (2000 Guineas and Champion Stakes), Persian Gulf winner of the Coronation Cup and sire of the Derby winner Parthia, Turkhan, winner of the 1940 St. Leger Stakes and Irish Derby and Zabara, and the winners of 469 races. Bahram was also the damsire of Noor who competed successfully in England as well as in America where he would be inducted into the United States' National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame.\n\nFollowing the German occupation of France during World War II, the Aga Khan fled France to the safety of Switzerland, and in September 1940, sold Bahram for £40,000 to an American syndicate made up of Walter P. Chrysler Jr., Alfred G. Vanderbilt II, James Cox Brady, Jr. and Sylvester Labrot, Jr. In 1941, the horse was brought to Vanderbilt's Sagamore Stud in Maryland then to Walter Chrysler Jr.'s North Wales Stud in Warrenton, Virginia. However, there was considerable resentment amongst British breeders against the Aga Khan for selling to overseas buyers all five of his Derby winners, particularly the three from the Blandford line, Bahram, Blenheim and Blenheim's son, Mahmoud. All of them were considered a severe loss to British breeding stock.\n\nIn the US Bahram sired the winners of 660 races worth two million dollars. In 1946 Bahram was sold for a reported $130,000 to a stud farm in Argentina where he met with only modest success before his death at 24 years of age in 1956.\n\n\n", "id": "7725565", "categories": ["Racehorses trained in the United Kingdom", "Thoroughbred family 16-a", "2000 Guineas winners", "Racehorses bred in Ireland", "1932 racehorse births", "1956 racehorse deaths", "Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing winners", "Chefs-de-Race", "Epsom Derby winners", "Undefeated racehorses"], "title": "Bahram (horse)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725581", "text": "Ronald Lockley\n\nRonald Mathias Lockley (8 November 1903 – 12 April 2000) was a Welsh ornithologist and naturalist. He wrote over fifty books on natural history, including a major study of shearwaters, and many articles. He is perhaps best known for his book \"The Private Life of the Rabbit\".\n\nLockley was born in Cardiff and grew up in the suburb of Whitchurch where his mother ran a boarding school. While still at school, he spent his weekends and summer holidays living rough in the woods and wetlands that now form the Glamorganshire Canal local nature reserve.\n\nAfter leaving school, he established a small poultry farm with his sister near St Mellons, Cardiff.\n\nHis son is the palaeontologist Martin Lockley.\n\nIn 1927, with his first wife Doris Shellard, he took a 21-year lease of Skokholm, a small island some four miles off the western tip of Pembrokeshire, which was inhabited only by rabbits and seabirds. Attempts to make a living from catching and selling rabbits and breeding chinchilla rabbits were abandoned when he found he could make a better living writing articles and books. He began to study migratory birds from 1928, establishing the first British bird observatory in 1933, and carrying out extensive pioneering research on breeding Manx shearwaters, Atlantic puffins and European storm-petrels. He was encouraged to record the exact incubation and fledging period of the Manx shearwater by Harry Witherby, the then editor of \"British Birds\". He provided the initial catalyst for the entire British Bird Observatory movement which, following the war-time interruption, reached its zenith in the fifties. He described his research in several books, including \"Dream Island\" (1930), \"Island Days\" (1934) and \"I Know an Island\" (1938). The work brought him to the notice of a wider circle of conservationists and naturalists, among them Peter Scott and Julian Huxley. Lockley's notable scientific monograph \"Shearwaters\" is a result of a twelve years' study. He founded the Pembrokeshire Bird Protection Society which later became the West Wales Field Society. He urged the broadening of the activities of the original Society and the extension of its area to include the whole of West Wales and it was at his insistence that the West Wales Field Society was incorporated as the West Wales Naturalists' Trust.\n\nWith Julian Huxley he made one of the first professional (BFI) nature films, \"The Private Life of the Gannets\" (1934), which won an Oscar.\n\nLockley continued farming on the mainland when Skokholm was used by the military during the Second World War. He played a key part in the preliminary survey of the natural history of Skomer Island in 1946, re-establishing Skokholm as a bird observatory and establishing the Council for the Promotion of Field Studies in Dale Fort. He played a leading role in setting up the Pembrokeshire Coast National Park in 1952, and in mapping out the coastal footpath around the county. Living at Orielton, a large estate near Pembroke, he undertook an intensive four-year scientific study of rabbit behaviour for the British Nature Conservancy during the 1950s. As chairman of the West Wales Field Society, he also led an unsuccessful campaign against the building of a large oil refinery at Milford Haven.\n\nHis belief that successive British governments were not sufficiently aware of the threat to the landscape from industrial development led to his decision to emigrate to New Zealand in 1970, with his third wife. There he continued to write, mostly about islands and birds, but also novels, and to travel among the islands of Polynesia and in the Antarctic.\n\nLockley was awarded an Honorary MSc by the University of Wales in 1977, in recognition of his distinction as a naturalist. In 1993 he was awarded the Union Medal of the British Ornithologists Union. He died in 2000, aged 96. His ashes were scattered from the boat Dale Princess, in the waters just off Skokholm Island in 2000.\n\nLockley's \"The Private Life of the Rabbit\" (1964) played an important role in the plot development of his friend Richard Adams's children's book \"Watership Down\". The \"New York Times\" obituary observed \"It was a rigorously factual work with none of the anthropomorphic sentimentality that infused \"Watership\" with its charm, but it bristled with insights.\" With Lockley's permission, Adams introduced him (alongside Sir Peter Scott) as a character in his later novel \"The Plague Dogs\" (1977).\n\nBooks authored or coauthored by Lockley:\n\n\nThis bibliography is believed to be a complete list of all Lockley's book titles, but many of his books have been reprinted and published in different editions. He was also a prolific writer of articles, many of them for \"Countryman\" magazine in the 1930s, 40s and 50s.\n\nA 1947 edition of \"I Know an Island\" was illustrated by James Lucas.\n\n", "id": "7725581", "categories": ["Welsh zoologists", "1903 births", "New Naturalist writers", "20th-century Welsh writers", "20th-century Welsh scientists", "Welsh non-fiction writers", "20th-century British zoologists", "New Zealand writers", "Welsh naturalists", "New Zealand ornithologists", "2000 deaths"], "title": "Ronald Lockley"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725587", "text": "THPP\n\nTHPP may refer to:\n", "id": "7725587", "categories": [], "title": "THPP"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725601", "text": "Helgi Daníelsson (footballer, born 1981)\n\nHelgi Valur Daníelsson (; born 13 July 1981 in Uppsala, Sweden) is a football player from Iceland.\n\nIn 2006, he left Fylkir who he had joined from Peterborough United for £25,000 in 2003, to go to Sweden to play for Östers IF in Allsvenskan.\n\nOn 12 December 2007, Helgi signed a contract with IF Elfsborg. On 22 January 2010, he left Elfsborg and joined Second Bundesliga club Hansa Rostock. After just a few months in the German side, he signed a deal with reigning Swedish champions AIK. On 2 July 2013, it was announced that he would transfer to Primeira Liga side Belenenses after AIK's game vs. Häcken on 22 July.\n\nOn 27 August 2014, Helgi terminated his contract with Belenenses for personal reason's. Two days later he signed a 2-year contract for the Danish 1. division side AGF.\n\nA predominantly defensive midfielder with excellent ball winning and positioning abilIty. Good in the air and comfortable on the ball. An eye for goal especially from set pieces.\n\nA defensive midfielder, Helgi has played for the Iceland national football team at youth and senior level.\n\n", "id": "7725601", "categories": ["Expatriate footballers in Germany", "Icelandic expatriate sportspeople in Portugal", "Expatriate footballers in Portugal", "Superettan players", "Association football midfielders", "Living people", "English Football League players", "IF Elfsborg players", "Östers IF players", "Fylkir players", "Iceland international footballers", "F.C. Hansa Rostock players", "1981 births", "Icelandic footballers", "Aarhus Gymnastikforening players", "2. Bundesliga players", "People from Uppsala", "Expatriate footballers in England", "AIK Fotboll players", "Icelandic expatriate footballers", "Peterborough United F.C. players", "Expatriate footballers in Sweden", "Allsvenskan players"], "title": "Helgi Daníelsson (footballer, born 1981)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725612", "text": "Juan Manuel Benítez\n\nJuan Manuel Benitez Fernel (born 1974 in Badajoz, Spain) is a Spanish journalist working in the United States. He is NY1 News/NY1 Noticias political anchor and reporter, and the creator and host of Pura Política, a weekly political program produced from New York City for NY1 Noticias.\n\nBenitez is also a journalism professor at Columbia University and CUNY Graduate School of Journalism\n\nFor the web publication Cuartopoder Benitez writes political analysis and commentary on his Oprima el 2 blog. He also co-wrote política pop, a Spanish-language blog on politics and culture.\n\nIn 2007, Benitez was a guest host for Viva Voz, a talk-show on V-me.\n\nIn September 2011, he was named one of \"City Hall\"'s \"40 under 40\" for being a young influential member of New York City politics.\n\n", "id": "7725612", "categories": ["Spanish television journalists", "Living people", "American television journalists", "1974 births", "People from Badajoz"], "title": "Juan Manuel Benítez"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725637", "text": "Royal Jewelry Museum\n\nThe Royal Jewelry Museum () is an art and history museum in the Zizenia neighborhood of Alexandria, Egypt. It is located in the former palace of Princess Fatma Al-Zahra'. The building's halls contain an inestimable collection of jewels and jewelry of the Muhammad Ali Dynasty. 19th-century paintings, statues, and decorative arts are also exhibited in the rooms and lobbies. The museum was first inaugurated on 24 October 1986. After several years of renovations and expansion it was reopened in April 2010.\n\nThe museum houses major jewelry pieces and art acquisitions of the dynasty of Muhammad Ali and his descendants, who ruled Egypt for nearly 150 years from 1805 until the Egyptian Revolution of 1952. Following the Revolution, the jewelry left by the Royal Family was kept secure and unseen until a 1986 decree by President Mubarak was issued to assign Princess Fatima Al-Zahra' Palace in Alexandria as a special museum to house those pieces.\n\nThe palace was built in 1919. Its walls and ceilings are adorned with oil paintings depicting various historical scenes and natural scenery. The palace windows are decorated with lead-inlaid glass artwork also depicting European-style historical scenes. It has of interior space, and is surrounded by gardens.\n\n\n", "id": "7725637", "categories": ["History museums in Egypt", "Muhammad Ali dynasty", "Art museums and galleries in Egypt", "Decorative arts museums", "Museums in Alexandria", "Jewellery museums", "Art museums established in 1986"], "title": "Royal Jewelry Museum"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725638", "text": "Johannes Mutters\n\nD. Johannes (Job) Mutters (19 February 1899 in The Hague – 8 March 1974 in Leidschendam) was a Dutch international football referee during the 1920s and early 1930s. \n\nMutters came to international prominence during the 1920s alongside Willem Eymers. Both men represented the Netherlands in the 1920 Olympic Games football tournament. Mutters took charge of three matches during the medal tournament, including one of the semi-finals (that involving Czechoslovakia). \n\nMutters took charge of a further semi-final in the 1924 edition of the series; Switzerland defeated Sweden to play against Uruguay in the final. He was selected to referee the final, but in the second semi-final Holland had been defeated by Uruguay and the Uruguayans disputed the involvement of a Dutch referee. Consequently, Marcel Slawick was drawn from a hat. \n\nFinally, Mutters was awarded the final of the 1928 tournament, a precursor to the 1930 World Cup final, in which Argentina played Uruguay. Mutters was the referee in the original final as well as the replay after the initial match ended in a 1-1 draw.\n\nIn addition Mutters took charge of five internationals played by England between 1921 and 1930, including both matches versus Germany and Austria during the 1930 tour. He had no involvement in the 1930 FIFA World Cup because the Netherlands did not participate.\n", "id": "7725638", "categories": ["1899 births", "1974 deaths", "Olympic football referees", "Dutch football referees"], "title": "Johannes Mutters"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725646", "text": "Fredrik Bild\n\nFredrik Bild (born 25 June 1974) is a retired Swedish football defender, who played for Östers IF.\n\nHe also represented IFK Norrköping in Allsvenskan.\n\nHe is the brother of Andreas Bild, son of Per-Olof Bild and grand nephew of Harry Bild.\n", "id": "7725646", "categories": ["IFK Norrköping players", "1974 births", "Living people", "Association football defenders", "Östers IF players", "Swedish footballers"], "title": "Fredrik Bild"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725659", "text": "EN (cuneiform)\n\nEN (Borger 2003 nr. 164 ; U+12097 𒂗, see also ENSI) is the Sumerian cuneiform for \"lord\" or \"priest\". Originally, it seems to have been used to designate a high priest or priestess of a Sumerian city-state's patron-deity - a position that entailed political power as well. It may also have been the original title of the ruler of Uruk. See \"Lugal, ensi and en\" for more details.\n\nDeities including EN as part of their name include EN.LÍL, EN.KI, EN.GURUN, and EN.ZU. \n\nEn-hedu-ana, Akkadian 2285 BC - 2250 BC was the first known holder of the title, \"En Priestess.\"\n\nThe 1350 BC Amarna letters use EN for bêlu, though not exclusively. The more common spelling is mostly 'be' + 'li', to make \"bêlí\", or its equivalent. Some example letters using cuneiform 'EN' are letters EA (for 'El Amarna') 252, EA 254, and EA 282, titled: \"\"A demand for recognition\"\", by Abimilku; \"\"Neither rebel or delinquent (2)\"\", by Labayu; and \"\"Alone\"\", by Shuwardata.\n\nMost of the uses are in the letter introduction, formulaic addresses to the pharaoh, stating typically to effect:\n\nBodies of the letters also repeat the phraseology of \"King, my Lord\", sometimes doubly as in letter EA 34, (using be-li, as bêlu), \"\"The pharaoh's reproach answered\"\", by the King of Alashiya.\n\n\n", "id": "7725659", "categories": ["Sumerian titles"], "title": "EN (cuneiform)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725671", "text": "Gassire's Lute\n\nGassire's Lute is a West African epic collected by Leo Frobenius and published in his collection, \"Atlantis: Volksmarchen und Volksdichtung Afrikas\" (vol. 6, 1921). The English translation is by Douglas Fox, published in \"African Genesis\" (first printed 1937). Alta Jablow wrote a study of the epic that appeared in 1973.\n\nThis lyrical epic narrative tells the story of a prince that becomes a bard. \n\n\"Gassire is a prince who would be the successor of his father, but his father is very powerful. Gassire wants to be king very badly, and becomes a mighty warrior to demonstrate his strength. Gassire consults an old wiseman and the old wiseman tells him that Gassire will abandon his quest to be king to play the lute. He also tells him that he will not be king and other people will become king after the death of his father, and the empire will fall. He hears the sound of the lute, and has one made for him because he loves the sound so much. When he tries to play the lute, it does not produce any sound. He hears that it can only be played if he goes into battle. He then hears that his sons must go to battle for the lute to play; in battle, seven of his sons die, but the lute will still not play. The people exiled him because of his violence and disregard for his family. He went into the desert with his one remaining son, his wives, and a few loyal friends. He finally can play the lute when he sings of the empire and the story provides lessons to all the people who listen.\"(Stern)\n\nWhile the story has enchanted readers since it first appeared, it should be approached with dire caution. Frobenius attributes it to the Soninke people of West Africa, the people associated with the Empire of Wagadu or Ghana, and the name Gassire is in fact the Soninke word for a bard/singer (known as griots elsewhere in Western Africa). While many of the stories Frobenius collected can be confirmed by modern research in the oral tradition, this story stands alone and no analogue has yet been reported.\n\n\n", "id": "7725671", "categories": [], "title": "Gassire's Lute"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725695", "text": "George Scialabba\n\nGeorge Scialabba (born 1948) is a freelance book critic living in Cambridge, Massachusetts. His reviews have appeared in \"Agni\", \"The Boston Globe\", \"Dissent\", the \"Virginia Quarterly Review\", \"The Nation\", \"The American Prospect\", and many other publications. Scialabba received the first Nona Balakian Excellence in Reviewing Award from the National Book Critics Circle.\n\nScialabba was born and raised in East Boston, MA to working-class Italian-American parents and, in his younger days, was a member of Opus Dei. He is an alumnus of Harvard University (AB, 1969) and Columbia University (MA, 1972). After working as a substitute teacher and a social worker (Massachusetts Department of Public Welfare, 1974-1980), he was a building manager at Harvard from 1980 until 2015. In 2015, after retiring from Harvard, he began writing a books column for \"The Baffler\".\n\nA collection of his reviews appeared in his first book, \"Divided Mind\", published in 2006 by Arrowsmith Press. Four subsequent collections of his essays have been published by poet William Corbett's publishing house, Pressed Wafer: \"What Are Intellectuals Good For?\" (2009), \"The Modern Predicament\" (2011), \"For the Republic\" (2013), and \"Low Dishonest Decades: Essays & Reviews, 1980-2015\". \"The Modern Predicament\" was chosen by James Wood in \"The New Yorker's\" year-end roundup of the best books of the year:\n\n\n", "id": "7725695", "categories": ["American Roman Catholics", "1948 births", "American people of Italian descent", "Living people", "Harvard University staff", "American literary critics", "Harvard University alumni"], "title": "George Scialabba"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725696", "text": "Archibald Henderson (politician)\n\nArchibald Henderson (August 7, 1768 – October 21, 1822) was a legislator, lawyer, and Congressional Representative from North Carolina.\n\nHe was born near Williamsboro, Granville County, North Carolina, August 7, 1768; attended the common schools, and was graduated from Springer College; moved to Salisbury, North Carolina, about 1790; studied law; was admitted to the bar and commenced practice in Salisbury; clerk and master in equity 1795-1798; elected as a Federalist to the Sixth and Seventh Congresses (March 4, 1799 – March 3, 1803); member of the State House of Commons 1807-1809, 1814, 1819, and 1820; resumed the practice of law in Salisbury, N.C., and died there October 21, 1822; interment in the City Cemetery.\n\nHe was the son of Richard Henderson, the brother of Leonard Henderson, and father-in-law of Nathaniel Boyden.\n\nThe Archibald Henderson Law Office at Salisbury was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1972.\n\n\n", "id": "7725696", "categories": ["Members of the United States House of Representatives from North Carolina", "North Carolina Federalists", "1822 deaths", "Federalist Party members of the United States House of Representatives", "1768 births", "People from Granville County, North Carolina", "Members of the North Carolina House of Representatives"], "title": "Archibald Henderson (politician)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725702", "text": "The Ill-Conceived P. D. Q. Bach Anthology\n\nThe Ill-Conceived P. D. Q. Bach Anthology is a collection of works by Peter Schickele writing as P. D. Q. Bach originally recorded on the Telarc label by the composer.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7725702", "categories": ["P. D. Q. Bach compilation albums", "1990s comedy albums", "Telarc Records compilation albums", "1998 compilation albums"], "title": "The Ill-Conceived P. D. Q. Bach Anthology"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725704", "text": "Filip Lundeholm\n\nFilip Lundeholm (born May 17, 1982) is a Swedish breaststroke swimmer, representing Linköpings ASS.\n\n", "id": "7725704", "categories": ["Swedish male swimmers", "1982 births", "Living people", "Linköpings ASS swimmers", "Jönköpings SS swimmers"], "title": "Filip Lundeholm"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725707", "text": "Deception (1946 film)\n\nDeception is a 1946 film noir movie released by Warner Brothers, and directed by Irving Rapper. The film is based on the play \"Monsieur Lamberthier\" by Louis Verneuil. The screenplay was written by John Collier and Joseph Than. It stars Bette Davis, Paul Henreid, and Claude Rains who had also appeared together in the highly successful \"Now, Voyager\" (1942).\n\nChristine Radcliffe (Bette Davis) is seen running in the rain up the stairs of a large symphony hall in which a concert is already underway with a performance of the Hayden cello concerto in D. Her eyes fill with tears as she recognizes the cellist on stage: Karel Novak (Paul Henreid) who spent the war trapped in neutral Sweden. After his performance, Novak is mobbed by well-wishers, and a student reporter questions him about his favorite composers. Novak lists some famous ones, then adds, \"And, of course, Hollenius.\"\n\nNovak returns to his dressing room and as the concert is heard resuming after intermission with the Schubert's \"Unfinished Symphony\" Christine enters and their eyes meet in his mirror. The couple embraces while Christine cries, \"I thought you were dead. I saw them kill you.\"\n\nKarel and Christine return to her apartment. Karel becomes suspicious of the rare artwork on display and the fur coat hanging in the closet. Christine has told Karel that she is living a precarious existence as a pianist but this conflicts with the evidence in the apartment. He confronts her, but frightens himself with his own vehemence and apologises to her, then says he's leaving. She stops him with the confession she lowered herself to taking \"rich, untalented pupils\" who gifted her with the suspicious items.\n\nThey marry, but the composer Alexander Hollenius (Claude Rains) makes a dramatic entrance at their wedding reception. It is evident he is jealous, and the stress leads him to break a wine glass without deliberate intent. Hollenius soon gives Novak a manuscript score of his new cello concerto, which Novak agrees to perform at its premiere. It becomes apparent to Christine that a cellist in the orchestra, Bertram Gribble (John Abbott), is being tutored in the solo part by Hollenius. Suspecting the sabotage of her husband's career, she unsuccessfully attempts to bribe Gribble into not co-operating.\n\nFriction develops between Novak and Hollenius, and the composer angrily breaks off a dress rehearsal on the grounds of Novak's temperamental behavior. On the evening of the premiere, Christine visits Hollenius, who threatens to tell Novak of their love affair. Distraught, Christine shoots him dead.\n\nAnother conductor, Neilsen (Einar Neilsen), takes the place of the absent Hollenius, and the performance is a great success. While well-wishers wait, Christine confesses everything to her husband, and they leave the concert hall together. As they walk out a lady says \"Oh Christine you must be the happiest woman in the world\" which eventually elicits a wan smile from Christine.\n\n\nThe film was based on a play \"Monsieur Lamberthier\" by Louis Verneuil, which was first performed in Paris in 1927. It opened on Broadway as \"Jealousy\" on October 22, 1928 at Maxine Elliott's Theatre, as a two-hander (play with only two main characters), with Fay Bainter and John Halliday. It was turned into a film also entitled \"Jealousy\" (1929) with Jeanne Eagels and Fredric March and directed by Jean de Limur. The play was presented again on Broadway on October 1, 1946 under the title \"Obsession\" at the Plymouth Theatre, with Eugenie Leontovich and Basil Rathbone. Warner Bros. originally purchased the play as a vehicle for Barbara Stanwyck and Paul Henreid.\n\nDavis' solo piano playing was performed by Shura Cherkassky. Henreid's cello playing was dubbed by Eleanor Aller. The music for Hollenius' \"Cello Concerto\" was by Erich Wolfgang Korngold, who composed the music for this film. Korngold subsequently expanded this material and published it as his own cello concerto.\n\nDespite the earlier success of Davis, Henreid, Rains and director Rapper, and generally positive reviews, \"Deception\" proved to be an expensive exercise for its producers. With high production costs and modest cinema patronage, it became the first Bette Davis film to lose money for Warner Bros.\n\nFilm critic Dennis Schwartz generally liked the film, writing, \"Irving Rapper (\"Shining Victory\"/\"Now, Voyager\"/\"Rhapsody in Blue\") helms this labored romantic melodrama, a remake of the early talkie 1929 \"Jealousy\" that was also based on a Louis Verneuil play. It's written by John Collier and Joseph Than ... With classical music filling the background, cheesy soap opera dialogue in the forefront, histrionics taking over the concert hall, none of the characters being likable and Bette Davis as hammy as ever, this preposterous opera-like tale is amazingly enjoyable as straight theatrical drama that is nevertheless campy and could easily have been treated as comedy.\"\n\nAccording to Warner Bros records, the film earned $2,132,000 domestically and $1,130,000 foreign.\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\n\n", "id": "7725707", "categories": ["1940s drama films", "American film remakes", "American films based on plays", "American black-and-white films", "Films scored by Erich Wolfgang Korngold", "Films based on works by Louis Verneuil", "Films set in New York City", "Films about classical music and musicians", "American films", "Film noir", "Films directed by Irving Rapper", "1946 films"], "title": "Deception (1946 film)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725710", "text": "Hyde and Hare\n\nHyde and Hare is a 1955 Looney Tunes Bugs Bunny cartoon, directed by Friz Freleng. The cartoon pits Bugs against Dr. Jekyll, who continues to turn into Mr. Hyde. The title is a play on the expression \"neither hide nor hair.\"\n\nBugs comes out of his rabbit hole in a city park every morning because a kind gentleman keeps coming to feed him a carrot (\"Well, here I go again with the 'timid little rabbit' routine. It's shameful, but - eh, it's a living!\"). At first feigning the on-all-fours posture of a real rabbit, Bugs eventually stands up and confides that he would rather simply go home with the gentleman as a \"pet\", since it would be easier for both of them. As the gentleman brings Bugs home, he remarks that it is strange that Bugs calls him \"Doc\" because, \"I happen to be a doctor.\" The camera then pans up to show that the name above the apartment is none other than Dr. Jekyll.\n\nInside the house, Bugs gets used to his new surroundings. Going into a room with a door marked \"laboratory\" in search of a carrot for Bugs,\nDr. Jekyll sees the fizzing, red potion that he knows he should not drink, but he gives in and drinks the potion anyway (\"Oh, I'm \"so\" ashamed!!\"). He then transforms into Mr. Hyde, with a monstrous green face and glowing red eyes. When Bugs sees him, he initially thinks he is a sick person who needs to see the doctor, he sits Hyde in a chair, but as he goes to get the doctor, Hyde swings an axe at Bugs, chopping a lamp in half. Bugs quickly realizes that this cackling, knuckle-dragging, axe-swinging monster is not something to be heckled. Bugs runs away, calling out for the doctor. Soon the monster reverts to Dr. Jekyll. Bugs, still thinking that Hyde might benefit from seeing a doctor, tries leading Jekyll to the patient. On the way, the doctor changes into Hyde. After yelling for Jekyll again, then seeing that suddenly Hyde is gone and the doctor is back, Bugs decides they should hide in a storage room. Once more, Dr. Jekyll transforms into Mr. Hyde and Bugs, having reinforced the door, tears it open and escapes. Bugs heads for a closet and, seeing the doctor in the hallway, waves him inside and shuts the door. In the dark, another change occurs and Bugs flees, running into the laboratory.\n\nAt this point, once he is the doctor again, Jekyll decides that he's going to pour the rest of the formula down the drain. He goes into his laboratory, but finds the beaker empty. He asks Bugs if he drank the potion; Bugs acts insulted at the idea and leaves (\"I am going \"back\" to the park! There is no question of my integrity there...\").\n\nWalking back to his park, Bugs transforms into a monstrous green rabbit, confirming Jekyll's suspicion that Bugs \"did\" drink the potion. The people at the park who are busy feeding the pigeons see the transformed Bugs and run away screaming. Bugs (who, unlike Dr. Jekyll, retained his usual personality and is unaware of the change in his appearance) wonders aloud, \"Now what's eating THEM? Hmph! You'd think they never saw a rabbit before!\" He chews on his carrot as the cartoon irises out.\n\n\nThe cartoon is available on the \"\" DVD box set. You can play Hyde Bugs in the \"\" video game.\n\n\n", "id": "7725710", "categories": ["Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde films", "Short films directed by Friz Freleng", "1950s American animated films", "1955 animated films", "Warner Bros. Cartoons animated short films", "American films", "Films scored by Carl Stalling", "Looney Tunes shorts"], "title": "Hyde and Hare"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725734", "text": "Edmund Weaver (publisher)\n\nEdmund Weaver was a draper and a bookseller in London in the 17th century.\n\nEdmund Weaver was an apprentice to Thomas Wight and was 'clothed' in 1607 and became master of the Worshipful Company of Drapers in 1637. He was married to Jane Weaver, who died on 29 August 1636. He was appointed a Commissioner of Hereford by an act of parliament in 1648.\n\nWeaver had many important books printed so he could sell them in his shop near St Paul's Church in London. He published Robert Cawdrey's book, \"A Table Alphabeticall\" in 1604. \"A Table Alphabeticall\" was the first monolingual dictionary in the English language. Weaver went on to publish three subsequent editions of \"A Table Alphabeticall\".\n\n\n", "id": "7725734", "categories": ["English businesspeople", "1590s births", "British book publishers (people)", "People of the Tudor period", "Bookshops in London", "Year of death missing"], "title": "Edmund Weaver (publisher)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725754", "text": "Oiasso\n\nOiasso, Oiasona or Oiarso was a Basque Roman town located on the left bank of the Bidasoa estuary in the Bay of Biscay (current Basque Country, in Spanish territory). Archaeological evidence unearthed recently pinpoints the core area of Oiasso in the old quarter of Irun (Gipuzkoa) by the Spanish-French border, where harbour and bath remains have been discovered. However, two other focuses in Cape Higuer and hermitage Ama Xantalen (necropolis and mausoleum) point to a wider complex outside the main nucleus.\n\nActually, some authors note that the name Oiasso may have applied to the whole valley, arguing that the very name of the Bidasoa River may stem from Latin \"via ad Oiasso\", eventually rendering \"Bidasoa\" in Basque. Furthermore, it is widely assumed that the name for the town Oiartzun some 10 km away may have developed from Oiasso. A Roman road linked this spot to ancient Pompaelo all the way through the \"Saltus Vasconum\" (the Vasconian wilderness), with the road being built to connect the Vasconian main town to the mines of \"Arditurri\" set in the massif of Aiako Harria. Romans showed an early interest on them on account of the ore (largely silver and copper) they could extract from them, using the port and factories of Oiasso to process and dispatch the freight away.\n\nA museum was founded recently in Irun to cater for the interest the vestiges unveiled have aroused and for tourism. \n\nEarlier it was misidentified with current San Sebastián, that is still nicknamed \"la bella Easo\" (\"The beautiful Easo\", a Hispanization of Oiasso).\n\nIruña-Veleia\n\n", "id": "7725754", "categories": ["Roman towns and cities in Spain", "Basque history"], "title": "Oiasso"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725765", "text": "Carroll Crest, Maryland\n\nCarroll Crest is an unincorporated community located in Middle River, Baltimore County, Maryland, United States. This community contains 233 houses secluded in a wooded area and was developed in two phases during the 1980s by Security Management. One of the roads leading into the community is Keeners Road. For years prior to the development of the community it was known as Ghost Road and had been the supposed site of several supernatural occurrences. District 6 is the current legislative apportionment that includes Carroll Crest. Seneca Elementary and Chase Elementary are the local schools.\n\n", "id": "7725765", "categories": ["Unincorporated communities in Baltimore County, Maryland", "Unincorporated communities in Maryland"], "title": "Carroll Crest, Maryland"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725773", "text": "Saint John Regional Hospital\n\nSaint John Regional Hospital is a Canadian hospital in Saint John, New Brunswick.\n\nOperated by Horizon Health Network, Saint John Regional Hospital opened in 1982, replacing the Saint John General Hospital and West Saint John Community Hospital facilities, creating the largest single health care facility in the province.\n\nSaint John Regional Hospital is the largest tertiary care referral hospital in New Brunswick and specializes in cardiac (New Brunswick Heart Centre) and trauma care services.\n\nSaint John Regional Hospital is also a teaching hospital for the Faculty of Medicine at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia as well as the \nFaculty of Medicine at Memorial University of Newfoundland in St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador\n\nIt also provides training opportunities for nursing and other health care programs at the University of New Brunswick's Saint John and Fredericton campuses and the New Brunswick Community College.\n\n\n", "id": "7725773", "categories": ["Heliports in Canada", "Hospitals established in 1982", "Hospitals in New Brunswick", "Hospital buildings completed in 1982", "Buildings and structures in Saint John, New Brunswick", "Teaching hospitals in Canada", "Certified airports in New Brunswick"], "title": "Saint John Regional Hospital"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725783", "text": "International Partnership for Microbicides\n\nThe International Partnership for Microbicides or IPM is a non-profit product development partnership (PDP) founded by Dr. Zeda Rosenberg in 2002 to prevent HIV transmission by accelerating the development and availability of a safe and effective microbicide for use by women in developing countries.\n\nSince its inception, IPM has focused on developing HIV-prevention products for women including gels, films, tablets and rings that contain antiretroviral (ARV)-based microbicides. Rights to incorporate existing ARVs into products developed specifically for use in developing countries have been negotiated with pharmaceutical companies working in the HIV field.\n\n\n", "id": "7725783", "categories": ["Medical and health organizations based in Maryland", "Microbicides", "International medical and health organizations", "HIV/AIDS organizations"], "title": "International Partnership for Microbicides"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725787", "text": "P68\n\nP68 may refer to:\n\n\n", "id": "7725787", "categories": [], "title": "P68"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725788", "text": "Bygdøy Royal Estate\n\nBygdøy Royal Estate (), also known as the \"Bygdø Royal Farm\", is a Kongsgård estate and manor house that occupies a large part of the northwestern part of the Bygdøy peninsula in Oslo, Norway. It is the official summer residence of the King of Norway.\n\nThe estate originally belonged to the Cistercian monastery on Hovedøya. At the end of the thirteenth century, Bygdøy was purchased from the Hovedøya monastery by King Haakon V of Norway as a gift for his wife, Queen Euphemia of Rügen. Their daughter, Ingeborg of Norway, later returned the island to the monastery.\n\nIt was acquired by the king during the Protestant Reformation to supply Akershus Fortress and garrison. The King would also use the estate for hunting and a hunting lodge. A zoological garden was set up by King Christian IV of Denmark-Norway. \n\nThe current main building was erected in 1733 as a summer residence and \"maison de plaisance\" for the Danish Governor of Norway, Christian Rantzau (1684-1771). King Christian Frederick lived on the estate in 1814 after he was forced to give up the throne and before he left for Denmark. Following the establishment of the Swedish-Norwegian Union, King Charles III purchased the remaining estate grounds from the Norwegian government in 1837. \n\nKing Oscar I would later erect the palace Oscarshall close to the estate grounds while his son, King Charles IV, later sold much of the estate back to the government. King Oscar II, the last king of the union, invested considerably in the estate and constructed six villas which functioned as both residences and guest houses (only one of these villas exists today). King Oscar II also established the worlds first open-air museum on the estate in the year 1881, a museum which in 1907 was overtaken by the Norwegian Museum of Cultural History.\nAfter the election of King Haakon VII in 1905, the King and Queen Maud lived their first year in Norway at the estate while the Royal Palace in Oslo was refurbished. Queen Maud created new English landscape and rock gardens on the estate grounds with the help of Charles Edward Hubbard. The royal family would later use the estate as a summer residence, a tradition which was continued by King Olav V and later King Harald V.\n\nA comprehensive restoration of the main building and gardens began in 2004. The buildings and gardens have undergone extensive refurbishments and the estate is again set to be the regular summer residence of Harald V and Queen Sonja . As a birthday present when the king and queen turned 70 in the year 2007, the Norwegian government restored a statue of Herman Wedel-Jarlsberg, which was erected by King Charles IV and unveiled in 1845, while also restoring the original buildings in the \"\"-park which is close to the estate.\n\n\n", "id": "7725788", "categories": ["Buildings and structures in Oslo", "Palaces in Norway", "Bygdøy", "Houses completed in 1733"], "title": "Bygdøy Royal Estate"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725808", "text": "Palace House\n\nPalace House is the home of Great Britain’s National Heritage Centre of Horseracing and Sporting Art in the remaining part of Charles II's racing palace in Newmarket, Suffolk, England. It is home to the National Horseracing Museum, the British Sporting Art Trust and Retraining of Racehorses, and was opened by Elizabeth II in 2016.\n\nThe National Horseracing Museum of the United Kingdom, a registered charity, tells the story of horse racing from its earliest origins to the world-wide phenomenon it is today. This is explored through works of art, silver, bronzes and artifacts including silks worn by famous jockeys such as Lester Piggott and Frankie Dettori. Using the latest interactive and audio-visual displays, the museum also takes a different look at the sport, examining the physical attributes of the elite equine athlete and the importance of thoroughbred pedigree.\n\nIt contains collections and records of people and horses involved in the sport of horse racing from its royal origins to the present day. Exhibits include the history of horse racing, horse racing in Britain, trophies, paintings of famous horses, trainers and jockeys, jockey uniforms, betting, and horse racing memorabilia. The Vestey Gallery of British Sporting Art is located in the museum, and features changing exhibits of art relating to sports, including hunting, shooting, fishing, boxing, archery, rowing and horse racing.\n\nThe British Sporting Art Trust, a registered charity, hosts a large collection of important pieces of British sporting art at Palace House. In the remaining part of Charles II’s racing palace is the Fred Packard Museum and Galleries of British Sporting Art and a new home for the British Sporting Art Trust. Paintings by George Stubbs and Sir Alfred Munnings rub shoulders with works from John Singer Sargent and John Wootton, showcasing some of the finest examples of British Sporting Art.\n\nThe gallery explores the development of popular sporting images through paintings, sculpture, print-making and the applied arts. Significant loans have come from the Tate and the Victoria & Albert Museum, along with a number of private and public art collections. \n\nRetraining of Racehorses hosts a number of retired racehorses in the Rothschild Yard in the Palace House grounds to meet with members of the public.\n\nThe National Horseracing Museum contains an extensive archive of images from glass negatives with accompanying biographies. The list includes both runners and breeding stock.\n\n", "id": "7725808", "categories": ["Equestrian museums in the United Kingdom", "Art museums and galleries in Suffolk", "Horse racing museums and halls of fame", "Sports museums in England", "Museums in Suffolk", "Horse racing in Great Britain"], "title": "Palace House"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725815", "text": "WAPDA F.C.\n\nWAPDA Football Club is a professional football club of Water & Power Development Authority, based in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan, that competes in Pakistan Premier League. They recently participated in 2018 National Challenge Cup, where lost to Pakistan Air Force in the finals.\n\nWAPDA has been Pakistan champions 8 times, winning four titles in Pakistan Premier League. They won their first league title in 1983 beating Habib Bank, and repeated this feat in 1991 against Habib Bank. In 2001, they overcame Khan Research Laboratories to win their third title, and retained their title in 2003 against Pakistan Army. In 2004 in the revamped Pakistan Premier League, they became the inaugural champions, when they pushed Pakistan Army into second in a final day decider.\n\nTheir biggest achievement came in 2007–08 season when they finished the season unbeaten after defeating Pakistan Army on the final day. They are the only Pakistani club to finish the season unbeaten and earning the title of Invincibles. \n\nSince the start of Pakistan Premier League, WAPDA have become one of the three dominant clubs in Pakistan along with Pakistan Army and Khan Research Laboratories. \n\nWAPDA's first ever Asian competition appearance was in 1991 Asian Club Championship, where they lost 5–0 to Dhaka Mohammedan SC away, and drew 0–0 at home, thus losing 5–0 on aggregate.\nThey represented Pakistan in the AFC President's Cup 2005, losing both of their games against Blue Star SC and Hello United and defeated Dordoi Bishkek 1–0 in their last group stage match as they were knocked-out of out the group stages. The club's next appearance in Asian competition was in 2008 AFC President's Cup, where once again they finished at bottom of their group, drawing one and losing two matches. In 2009 AFC President's Cup, WAPDA finished second in their group and qualified for semi-finals after being the best second-placed in the tournament, WAPDA faced their group-mate Regar-TadAZ in the semi-finals, WAPDA lost 4–3 at extra-time. Club's last Asian appearance was in 2011 AFC President's Cup, where they finished third in their group and were knocked out.\n\n\n\nWAPDA are one of the most successful club in Pakistan, in terms of trophies won. The club's first trophy was National Football League in 1983. The club won most trophies in 2000s, winning the league five times. Their biggest achievement in continental competition was reaching the semi-finals of AFC President's Cup 2009, where they lost to Tajik side Regar-TadAZ 4-3 on extra time.\n\n\n", "id": "7725815", "categories": ["Football clubs in Pakistan", "1983 establishments in Pakistan", "Water and Power Development Authority"], "title": "WAPDA F.C."}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725819", "text": "Vertex (company)\n\nVertex is a call centre operator that also offers a variety of other business process outsourcing (BPO) and customer management outsourcing services. \nOriginally the back office service function inside UK utility company United Utilities, Vertex was spun out as a separate company in 1996. In 2007, United Utilities sold Vertex to a consortium of investors (Oak Hill Capital, GenNx360, Knox Lawrence International) for £217m.\n\nVertex services include:\n\n", "id": "7725819", "categories": ["Outsourcing companies"], "title": "Vertex (company)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725831", "text": "SRR\n\nSRR can stand for:\n", "id": "7725831", "categories": [], "title": "SRR"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725839", "text": "Adrian Cush\n\nAdrian Cush (born 12 June 1970) is a former Gaelic footballer for Tyrone. He was part of the panel that played in Tyrone's second ever All-Ireland Final in 1995, and has enjoyed immense success on the underage scene.\n\nAs his career took him to London, he had to stutter his playing for Tyrone, despite being at the top of his game. His is considered one of unfulfilled careers of Tyrone GAA.\n\n", "id": "7725839", "categories": ["1970 births", "Living people", "Tyrone inter-county Gaelic footballers"], "title": "Adrian Cush"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725845", "text": "Militant use of children in Sri Lanka\n\nMilitant use of children in Sri Lanka has been an internationally recognized problem since the inception of the Sri Lankan civil war in 1983. The primary recruiters of under the age of 18 children are the rebel LTTE movement and the Karuna group (a break-away faction of the LTTE working with Sri Lanka Forces).\n\nBefore 2007 the LTTE was accused of recruiting thousands of children into their ranks. The LTTE has been accused of knowingly recruiting and using child soldiers as front-line troops. Amid international pressure, LTTE announced in July 2003 that it would stop conscripting child soldiers, but both UNICEF and HRW have accused it of reneging on its promises, and of conscripting Tamil children orphaned by the tsunami. UNICEF claimed that LTTE recruited at least 40 children orphaned by the tsunami. However, from the beginning of 2007 LTTE agreed to release all of the recruits under the age of 18.\n\nAccording to UNICEF, between November 1, 2006 and August 31, 2007, 262 children were recruited by the LTTE; this figure includes 32 children who were rerecruited after being released. This number shows a significant decrease in recruitment as compared to the previous 12-month period, which saw the LTTE recruit 756 children, of whom 97 were rerecruits.\nThe LTTE promised that it would release all of the recruits under the age of 18 before the end of the year. On 18 June 2007, the LTTE released 135 children under the age of 18. On 22 October 2007, UNICEF claimed that at least 506 child recruits (under the age of 18) still remained under the LTTE. UNICEF further noted that there had been a significant drop in recruitment of children by the LTTE. Furthermore, a report released by the LTTE's Child Protection Authority (CPA) in 2008 reported that fewer than 40 child soldiers, under the age of 18, still remained in their forces. In January 2008, the LTTE claimed that they had stopped child recruitment. Despite the LTTE claims according to the UNICEF a total of 594 children aged between 12 and 18 years surrendered to armed forces during the end of the war.\n\nMore recently, TMVP known as the Karuna Group (A Tamil paramilitary group which supports the Sri Lankan government), has been held responsible for the abduction of children according to UNICEF and Human Rights Watch. Allan Rock, who is a special advisor to the UN Special Rapporteur for Children and Armed Conflict Dr. Radhika Coomaraswamy, alleged that government forces had forcibly rounded up young Tamil children to fight with Col Karuna's group. Colonel Karuna, while categorically denying any involvement in abducting children, questioned Rock's impartiality, stating that Allan Rock is a former politician with links to the LTTE who had previously helped the LTTE in Canada. Civilians have also complained that the TMVP is continuing to abduct children, including some in their early teens, for use as soldiers. Allan Rock vowed that he had \"credible evidence\" for the accusations. The government of Sri Lanka and the Government newspaper \"Daily News\" asked Mr. Rock to produce substantive proof that Sri Lankan soldiers collaborated in child soldier recruitment. The new report by the United Nations stated that TMVP still recruits children. The UN further noted that children have been abducted in places like Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps in Sri Lanka.\n\n", "id": "7725845", "categories": ["Child labour", "Human rights abuses in Sri Lanka", "Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam", "Military sociology"], "title": "Militant use of children in Sri Lanka"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725846", "text": "Inspector window\n\nThe graphical control element inspector window is a type of dialog window that shows a list of the current attributes of a selected object and allows these parameters to be changed on the fly. A common use is in Integrated Development Environments, where the window shows the changing values of variables associated to an object during a debugging session.\n\nInspector windows show information in programs like file managers, showing file parameters like file size and access permissions.\n\nFor example, in a vector graphics application the user creates drawings out from elements such as lines, rectangles and circles. When such an element is selected on the page, an inspector will show the current size and absolute position on the page of this element with numbers. The user can then change those numbers to change the size or position of the object on the page.\n\nA inspector window is a type of palette window.\n\n", "id": "7725846", "categories": ["User interface techniques", "Graphical control elements"], "title": "Inspector window"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725848", "text": "Nicocles (Paphos)\n\nNikokles (; d. 306 BC) was a king of Paphos on the island of Cyprus. As king, Nikokles changed the capital of Paphos, from the old one to the new one. In 321 BC he allied himself with Ptolemy I to fight against Perdiccas and Antigonus.\nHowever, in 310 BC, after Ptolemy had established his power over the whole island of Cyprus, Nikokles entered into secret negotiations with Antigonus. Hereupon, the Egyptian monarch, alarmed lest the spirit of disaffection should spread to other cities, dispatched two of his friends, Argaeus and Kallikrates, to Cyprus. They surrounded the palace of Paphos with an armed force, and commanded Nikokles to put an end to his own life, an order with which, after a vain attempt at explanation, he was obliged to comply. Nikokles and his brothers hanged themselves. After her husband had killed himself, Axiothea of Paphos, his wife, slew her virgin daughters to prevent them from falling into the hands of the Greeks. Then, together with her sisters-in-law, she set fire to the palace and perished in the flames so that not even their bodies could fall in the hands of their enemies.\n\n\n", "id": "7725848", "categories": ["Suicides by hanging in Cyprus", "Ancient Greek rulers", "Year of birth missing", "Kings of ancient Cyprus", "300s BC deaths", "4th-century BC births", "4th-century BC Greek people"], "title": "Nicocles (Paphos)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725856", "text": "Ida Marko-Varga\n\nIda Marko-Varga (born \"Mattsson\" 10 March 1985) is a Swedish swimmer. She represents SK Triton.\n\nMarko-Varga was an early prospect, winning two individual freestyle titles at the 1998 Swedish Swimming Championships at the age of 13. The winning marks were 2:03.95 on 200-metre freestyle and 4:21.41 on the 400 m freestyle. She won all the five titles she contested for in the Swedish Youth Championships the same summer, although she was one year younger than the others in her age group. At the Swedish Youth Short Course Championships she won six individual titles and two relay medals, still being one year younger.\n\nShe won a bronze medal in the 200-metre freestyle event at the 2000 European Junior Swimming Championships, behind Irina Oufimtseva and Éva Risztov.\n\nAt the Athens 2004 Olympic Games she swam in the 4 × 200 m freestyle relay (with Josefin Lillhage, Malin Svahnström and Lotta Wänberg), finishing 8th in the final.\n\nAt the 2008 Summer Olympics she competed in individually 200 m freestyle and in the 4 × 100 m freestyle and the 4 × 200 m freestyle. She finished 16th individually and 8th with 4×200 relay team. The 4 × 100 m freestyle team didn't make the finals finishing 11th in the prelims.\n\nMarko-Varga has been involved in two relay bronze medals at the Short Course World Championships, the 4 × 100 m freestyle relay in Shanghai 2006 and the 4 × 200 m freestyle relay at the 2004 Indianapolis championships. She has also earned two relay bronze medals at the European Championships, 4 × 200 m freestyle relay in Berlin 2002 and 4 × 100 m freestyle relay in Eindhoven 2008.\n\n\n", "id": "7725856", "categories": ["Medalists at the FINA World Swimming Championships (25 m)", "Olympic swimmers of Sweden", "Trelleborgs SS swimmers", "Malmö KK swimmers", "Female freestyle swimmers", "Swimmers at the 2004 Summer Olympics", "SK Ran swimmers", "Swimmers at the 2012 Summer Olympics", "Living people", "Swimmers at the 2016 Summer Olympics", "European Aquatics Championships medalists in swimming", "SK Triton swimmers", "1985 births", "Swedish female swimmers", "Swimmers at the 2008 Summer Olympics"], "title": "Ida Marko-Varga"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725877", "text": "Kings Bay\n\nKings Bay may refer to:\n\n\n", "id": "7725877", "categories": [], "title": "Kings Bay"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725894", "text": "Tony Leswick\n\nAnthony Joseph Leswick (March 17, 1923 – July 1, 2001) was a Canadian ice hockey forward who played mostly for the New York Rangers and Detroit Red Wings of the NHL. Nicknamed \"Tough Tony\" and \"Mighty Mouse\", he was known also as a little pest. Little, because he stood just 5'7\" tall and weighed 160 lbs. He is most famous for scoring the final goal in overtime of game seven of the 1954 Stanley Cup final.\n\nLeswick played his junior hockey in Saskatoon with the Dodgers and Quakers, and quickly started turning heads. In 1942, Leswick finally jumping into the AHL with the Cleveland Barons and scored 40 points in only 52 games. He moved onto the PCHL in the following season to play for the New Westminster Royals. Scoring 36 points in 19 games there, he followed up his great season by joining with HMCS CHIPPAWA of the Winnipeg Navy, where he helped to win the 1944–1945 Basil Baker trophy for inter-service hockey. The New York Rangers (who acquired him in June 1945) had seen enough and brought him into their lineup for the remainder of the 1945–46 season.\n\nLeswick delivered. He scored 15 goals in his shortened rookie season for the Rangers and quickly established himself as one of the few bright spots in New York. He loved getting under peoples skin, including that of Montreal Canadiens' Rocket Richard, and Gordie Howe of the Detroit Red Wings. Leswick recorded consecutive 20-goal seasons in 1947 and 1948, but the Rangers continued to miss the playoffs or get knocked out in the early rounds. After scoring 44 points in 1949–50, he was named to the NHL second all-star team. During this time, he formed a successful combination with Edgar Laprade and Dunc Fisher.\n\nDetroit had seen the way that Leswick would go after Howe and knew that took guts. They decided to trade for Leswick after the 1950–51 season. On June 8, Tony Leswick became a Detroit Red Wing after a blockbuster trade that saw Gaye Stewart going to New York. Leswick would continue his pestering ways and was inserted on a line with Marty Pavelich and Glen Skov. He would help lead Detroit to Stanley Cups in 1952, 1954, and 1955. He is probably most remembered for his winning goal in game seven of the 1954 Stanley Cup finals against the Montreal Canadiens. Leswick had this to say in an interview with Chuck O'Donnell \n\nSo, I'm just thinking of lifting the puck down deep in their end, just making the safe play. So I flipped it in nice and high and turned to get off the ice. The next thing I know, everyone's celebrating. It had gone in. I said, \"You've got to be kidding. It went in? Get out of here!\"\" \n\nDefenceman Doug Harvey went back to glove the puck, but instead deflected it past goaltender Gerry McNeil and into the net for the game-winning goal.\n\nFollowing his third Stanley Cup victory in 1955, Leswick was traded to the Chicago Black Hawks along with Glen Skov, Johnny Wilson and Benny Woit for Jerry Toppazzini, John McCormack, Dave Creighton and Gord Hollingworth, on May 27. He would score 11 goals and 11 assists in the 1955–56 season for Chicago before jumping to the rival WHL. The Edmonton Flyers welcomed his 53 points in the 1956–57 season and he was invited to another All-Star team. After a brief 22 games for Detroit in 1957, Leswick would again join the Edmonton Flyers until the close of the 1959 season. He would play 9 games the following season for the Vancouver Canucks of the WHL before retiring from playing hockey.\n\nLeswick tried his hand at coaching starting in 1958. He replaced the current coach of the Edmonton Flyers midseason in 1957–58 and would continue until midseason of 1958–59. He felt he was more of a help to the team on the ice. He would try his hand at coaching one more time with the Indianapolis Capitals/Cincinnati Wings of the Central Hockey League in the 1963–64 season. They would finish last in the league with a 12–53–7 record and Leswick would retire from the world of hockey.\n\n\n", "id": "7725894", "categories": ["Chicago Blackhawks players", "Edmonton Flyers (WHL) players", "Vancouver Canucks (WHL) players", "Detroit Red Wings players", "2001 deaths", "1923 births", "Canadian ice hockey left wingers", "Sportspeople from Humboldt, Saskatchewan", "Cleveland Barons (1937–73) players", "New York Rangers players", "Stanley Cup champions"], "title": "Tony Leswick"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725899", "text": "M-116 (Michigan highway)\n\nM-116 is a state trunkline highway in the US state of Michigan that begins in Ludington at an intersection with US Highway 10 (US 10) at James Street and Ludington Avenue. The road travels northward, much of it along the shore of Lake Michigan before reaching its terminus at the entrance to Ludington State Park. The roadway has been in the state highway system since the late 1920s. It has been realigned a few times, most recently in the late 1990s.\n\nM-116 begins in Ludington at the intersection of James Street and Ludington Avenue. It is at this intersection where US 10 turns southward and heads to the Ludington–Manitowoc ferry docks. From here, M-116 continues westward along Ludington Avenue through a mixed commercial area for about one-half mile (0.8 km) before turning north on Lakeshore Drive. The road continues as North Lakeshore Drive through resident areas and passes the Lakeview Cemetery. Before passing the Lincoln Hills Golf Club, M-116 crosses a narrow section of Lincoln Lake and then curves westward towards the shore of Lake Michigan as it approaches the state park. The route runs along the coast of Lake Michigan for the remainder of its route, through an area of sand dunes, until reaching its northern terminus at the entrance to Ludington State Park.\n\nLudington State Park is bound to the west by Lake Michigan, the north by sand dunes and to the east by Hamlin Lake. As such, M-116 provides the only road access to the park from the south. The park encompasses offering biking, hiking, fishing, tubing, boating and ice skating in the winter. The park is also home to the tall Big Sable Point Lighthouse, built in 1867, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\nThe highway is maintained by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT), which is responsible for maintaining and constructing transportation infrastructure in the state, including highways. As part of this role, the department periodically conducts surveys on their highways to measure traffic volume. This is expressed in terms of average annual daily traffic (AADT), which is a measure of traffic volume for any average day of the year. In 2009, MDOT calculated that 7,377 vehicles used the southern section of M-116 daily near the US 10 junction. On the north end, only 859 vehicles used the roadway near the state park entrance each day. The highway has not been listed on the National Highway System, a network of roads important to the country's economy, defense, and mobility.\n\nIn December 2014, Michigan Governor Rick Snyder authorized a portion of the highway in Ludington State Park between Little River and Big Sable in Mason County to be named \"The Paul K. Butterfield II Memorial Highway\", in honor of that Michigan State Police Trooper who was murdered during a traffic stop there in 2013. The ceremony to do so took place in early February 2015. \n\nM-116 was first designated in May or June 1928 from the north city limit of Ludington north to the Sable River, but not all of it was built and open to traffic. It was extended southerly in 1931 into the city of Ludington to US 10. There was a new alignment closer to the lakeshore opened in early 1933. The northern end was extended in late 1935 to encompass the Big Sable River bridge. The last change to the routing was made in 1998 when US 10 was shifted to follow James Street instead of William Street to the car ferry docks. At that time, M-116 was extended east along Ludington Avenue to end at James Street.\n\n", "id": "7725899", "categories": ["State highways in Michigan"], "title": "M-116 (Michigan highway)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725925", "text": "Amorphophallus paeoniifolius\n\nAmorphophallus paeoniifolius, the elephant foot yam or whitespot giant arum, is a tropical tuber crop grown primarily in Africa, South Asia, Southeast Asia and the tropical Pacific islands. Because of its production potential and popularity as a vegetable in various cuisines, it can be raised as a cash crop.\n\nThe elephant foot yam is used as food in Island Southeast Asia, Mainland Southeast Asia, South Asia, New Guinea, Oceania, and Madagascar. Its origin and center of domestication was formerly considered to be India, where it is most widely utilized as a food resource in recent times. But a genetic study in 2017 have shown that Indian populations of elephant foot yams have lower genetic diversity than those in Island Southeast Asia, therefore it is now believed that elephant foot yams originated from Island Southeast Asia and spread into westwards into Thailand and India, resulting in three independent domestication events. From Island Southeast Asia, they were also spread even further west into Madagascar, and eastwards to coastal New Guinea and Oceania by the Austronesian migrations. Though they may have spread south into Australia without human intervention.\n\nThe plant blooms annually around the beginning of the rainy season. The flower bud emerges from the corm as a purple shoot, and later blooms as a purple inflorescence. The pistillate (female) and staminate (male) flowers are on the same plant and are crowded in cylindrical masses as an inflorescence. The top part is responsible for secreting mucus that gives off putrid, pungent smell that is used to attract pollinating insects, the middle part of the inflorescence contains staminate, and the base of the inflorescence contains pistillate. The stigmas of the female flowers will be receptive on the first day of the bloom, when the pungent smell draws pollinating insects inside, and the inflorescence closes, trapping them for a night to allow the pollen deposited on the insect to be transferred to the stigmas. \n\nLater in the second day, the female flower is no longer receptive to pollens, the male flowers start to bloom, and the inflorescence opens again. This allows the pollen to be deposited on the emerging insects to pollinate other flowers, while preventing the pollen from the same inflorescence fertilising itself, preventing inbreeding.\n\nIn 24–36 hours, after the first bloom of the inflorescence, the inflorescence's female flowers start developing into berries bright red fruiting bodies, and other parts of the inflorescence start wilting away. The berries are red when ripe and are not quite round, being or .\n\nWhile the flowers are in bloom they also produce heat. They die after five days.\n\nIn Bangladesh, it is called \"Ol Kochu\". It is usually eaten as mashed and added to curries and, more rarely, pickles. The leaves are also eaten and are used to make a special leaf based curry. \n\nIn Bihar, it is used in oal curry (i.e. Elephant Foot curry), oal bharta or chokha, pickles and chutney. Oal chutney is also called \"Barabar chutney\" as it has mango, ginger and oal in equal quantities, hence the name barabar (meaning \"in equal amount\").\n\nIn Chhattisgarh, it is called \"Zimmikanda\". It is eaten as curry and is a delicacy among people of Chhattisgarh.\nIn Tripura, it is called \"Batema\" and prepared by making a paste with sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) and water to remove its raphides (calcium oxalate needles). The paste is shaped into buns and boiled with water containing baking soda, after which the water is discarded. The buns are then cut into pieces and combined with fresh garlic paste and Mosdeng(a spicy paste of dried fish/shrimp and chili). Also, the leaves and stems are eaten by chopping them into pieces and frying.\n\nIn Southern India, especially Kerala, it is known as \"Chena\" (ചേന), the tuber has been a part of people's diet for centuries. It is mainly served as steamed pieces (പുഴുക്ക്) along with traditional chutney made of green chilli, coconut oil, shallots and garlic although the curry preparation is also common as a side dish for rice. It has served as the main source of carbohydrates especially during the famine stricken days of the region in the past along with the more popular tapioca.\n\nThe elephant-foot yam is widely used in Indian medicine and is recommended as a remedy in all three of the major Indian medicinal systems: Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani. The corm is prescribed in those systems for a variety of ailments.\n\n", "id": "7725925", "categories": ["Flora of Malesia", "Thermogenic plants", "Flora of the Indian subcontinent", "Flora of New Guinea", "Amorphophallus", "Root vegetables", "Flora of Indo-China", "Flora of the Northern Territory", "Crops originating from Asia"], "title": "Amorphophallus paeoniifolius"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725949", "text": "Richard Milton\n\nRichard Milton may refer to:\n", "id": "7725949", "categories": [], "title": "Richard Milton"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725950", "text": "Partners for Advanced Transit and Highways\n\nCalifornia Partners for Advanced Transit and Highways (PATH) is a collaboration between the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans), UC Berkeley, other public and private academic institutions, and private industry. PATH's mission: applying advanced technology to increase highway capacity and safety, and to reduce traffic congestion, air pollution, and energy consumption. The organization recently celebrated its twentieth year.\n\nCaltrans provides a portion of PATH funding; the remaining funding comes from the United States Department of Transportation, other state and local agencies, and private industry. PATH supports the research of nearly 50 faculty members and 90 graduate students.\nAlexander Skabardonis, Adjunct Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at UC Berkeley, is the PATH Director.\n\nAs a collaborative organization, PATH has had many partners, including public agencies, universities, and private companies. Partners include the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans); the Federal Highway Administration; the Federal Transit Administration; the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; the Metropolitan Transportation Commission; the California Highway Patrol; the University of California, Davis, Irvine, Los Angeles, and Riverside; Claremont Graduate University; University of Southern California; George Mason University; Virginia Tech; Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Honda; Toyota; SRI International Jet Propulsion Laboratory; Honeywell; General Motors; DaimlerChrysler; and the Ford Motor Company. It is administered by the Institute of Transportation Studies at UC Berkeley, and housed at UC Berkeley's Richmond Field Station. \nPATH's main mission is to conduct research. Primary areas of study are traffic operations, transit operations, traffic safety, and policy and behaviorial research. A few examples of this work include:\n\n\n", "id": "7725950", "categories": ["Road transportation in California", "University of California, Berkeley", "Road transportation in the United States"], "title": "Partners for Advanced Transit and Highways"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725958", "text": "William G. Harless\n\nWilliam G. Harless (November 20, 1933 – May 2014) was an educational theorist. He held a Ph.D. degree in psychology and learning theory and was co-founder, President and CEO of Interactive Drama Inc. (IDI).\n\nHe held a faculty position at the Union for Experimenting Colleges and Universities, where accredited doctorate degrees are awarded from a multidisciplinary, experientially based curriculum.\n\nIn the early 1960s, while a professor at the University of Illinois School of Medicine in Chicago, he developed the first natural language computer patient simulation model.\n\nHe created the first voice-activated interactive videodisc patient simulation model at the National Library of Medicine of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in the mid-1980s. While a professor at Georgetown University School of Medicine, he integrated these patient simulations into the medical school curriculum.\n\nIn 1991, he was awarded a patent for his voice-controlled video simulation model (Conversim). He founded IDI in 1986 and left academia in 1992 to focus on further research and development and expanded applications (Virtual Conversations programs) of the virtual dialogue method. His work was funded through competitive grants and contracts awarded by NIH and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency of the Department of Defense.\n\nHarless was awarded a second patent in 1998 for his dynamic prompting system used in the virtual dialogue programs. He published over fifty articles on natural language interactive simulation as a learning strategy, the most recent being the results of a study of the effectiveness of the Virtual Conversations Arabic Language Series.\n\n\n", "id": "7725958", "categories": ["American educational theorists", "Union Institute &amp; University faculty", "1933 births", "2014 deaths", "Artificial intelligence researchers"], "title": "William G. Harless"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725959", "text": "Paul Wolfskehl\n\nPaul Friedrich Wolfskehl (30 June 1856 in Darmstadt – 13 September 1906 in Darmstadt), was a physician with an interest in mathematics. He bequeathed 100,000 marks (equivalent to 1,000,000 pounds in 1997 money) to the first person to prove Fermat's Last Theorem.\n\nHe was the younger of two sons of a banker, Joseph Carl Theodor Wolfskehl. \nHis older brother, the jurist Wilhelm Otto Wolfskehl, took over the family bank after the death of his father. Paul became a doctor of medicine. At about this time, he began to suffer from multiple sclerosis, which eventually forced him to pursue another career. He chose mathematics.\n\nThere are a number of theories concerning the prize's origin. The most romantic is that he was spurned by a young lady and decided to commit suicide, but was distracted by what he thought was an error in a paper by Ernst Kummer, who had detected a flaw in Augustin Cauchy's attempted proof of Fermat's famous problem. This rekindled his will to live and, in gratitude, he established the prize. This story was traced by Philip Davis and William Chinn in their 1969 book \"3.1416 and All That\" to renowned mathematician Alexander Ostrowski, who supposedly heard it from another, unidentified source. Another, more prosaic story claims that Wolfskehl wanted to leave as little as possible to his shrewish wife. Yet another story, told in \"The man who loved only numbers\" by Paul Hoffman, tells that Wolfskehl actually missed his supposed suicide time because he was in the library studying the Theorem. Upon realizing that, he concluded that the contemplation of mathematics was more rewarding than a beautiful woman so he decided not to kill himself. He bankrolled the Theorem because it \"saved his life\". On June 27, 1997, the prize was finally won by Andrew Wiles. By then, due in part to the hyperinflation Germany suffered after the end of World War I, the award had dwindled to £30,000.\n\nThe play \"From Abstraction\" by Robert Thorogood is based on the life of Paul Wolfskehl. It was broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on 1 November 2006 and 29 August 2008.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7725959", "categories": ["1856 births", "German Jews", "1906 deaths", "German mathematicians"], "title": "Paul Wolfskehl"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725967", "text": "Gholamreza Rezvani\n\nAyatollah Gholamreza Rezvani (born ? - April 20, 2013) was a member of the Council of Guardians in the Islamic Republic of Iran. He believes in literal interpretation of Quran, hadith, and sunnah and has argued that there is \"no substitute\" for stoning adulterers.\n\n", "id": "7725967", "categories": ["2013 deaths", "Year of birth missing", "Members of the Assembly of Experts", "Iranian ayatollahs", "Members of the Guardian Council"], "title": "Gholamreza Rezvani"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725976", "text": "Pakistan Army F.C.\n\nThe Pakistan Army Football Club is a Pakistani football club based in Rawalpindi, Punjab. The club was established in 1950 by Pakistan Army and is third oldest existing club in Pakistan after K-Electric (1913) and Pakistan Navy (1948). The club plays in Pakistan Premier League under the licence from Pakistan Football Federation (PFF). \n\nPakistan Army has won won the top-flight football league in Pakistan 4 times, National Football Challenge Cup 2 times and Quaid-e-Azam Trophy 5 times. \nThe Pakistan Army represented Pakistan in the AFC President's Cup 2006, and again 2007 as last seasons national champions. In both instances, Army showed poor performances, finishing bottom of their groups and failing to qualify for the next rounds of the tournaments. In 2016, Pakistan Army defeated Pakistan Airlines in the All-Pakistan Football Tournament at the Peoples Football Stadium in Karachi.\n\nThe club's competitive record since the 2004–05 season are listed below.\n\n", "id": "7725976", "categories": ["1950 establishments in Pakistan", "Military sport in Pakistan", "Football clubs in Pakistan", "Pakistan Army", "Military association football clubs"], "title": "Pakistan Army F.C."}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725980", "text": "Maple Shade School District\n\nThe Maple Shade School District is a comprehensive community public school district that serves students in kindergarten through twelfth grade from Maple Shade Township, in Burlington County, New Jersey, United States.\n\nAs of the 2014-15 school year, the district and its four schools had an enrollment of 2,323 students and 177.7 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 13.1:1.\n\nThe district is classified by the New Jersey Department of Education as being in District Factor Group \"CD\", the sixth highest of eight groupings. District Factor Groups organize districts statewide to allow comparison by common socioeconomic characteristics of the local districts. From lowest socioeconomic status to highest, the categories are A, B, CD, DE, FG, GH, I and J.\n\nSchools in the district (with 2014-15 enrollment data from the National Center for Education Statistics) are:\n\nPrior to the opening of Maple Shade High School in 1972, the township's students had been sent for 40 years to Merchantville High School in neighboring Camden County. With the loss of Maple Shade students, Merchantville closed its high school after the end of the 1971-72 school year and started sending its students to Pennsauken High School for grades nine through twelve.\n\nCore members of the district's administration are:\n\n", "id": "7725980", "categories": ["Maple Shade Township, New Jersey", "New Jersey District Factor Group CD"], "title": "Maple Shade School District"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725990", "text": "Innogenetics\n\nInnogenetics N.V. (now Fujirebio Europe N.V.) is an international in vitro diagnostics (IVD) company, with headquarters in Ghent, Belgium. The company develops and markets IVD testing solutions from specialized manual testing to fully automated routine testing that cover areas such as infectious diseases, oncology, genetic testing, thyroid, fertility, tissue typing, neurodegeneration and bone. The company was acquired in September 2010 by Japanese Fujirebio Inc., part of Miraca Holdings Inc., and changed name to Fujirebio Europe on October 1, 2013. The CEO of Fujirebio Europe N.V. is Christiaan De Wilde.\n\nInnogenetics was founded on 18 July 1985, by Erik Tambuyzer, Hugo Van Heuverswyn and Rudi Mariën. In 1992, the company launched the first commercial tests for cystic fibrosis in Europe (INNO-LiPA CFTR) and in 1993 the first commercial test for Hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotyping worldwide (INNO-LiPA HCV). In 1995, the first commercial Alzheimer's disease research test for hTau was launched (INNOTEST hTau Ag). In 1998, the company launched the first commercial Alzheimer's disease research test for β-Amyloid and in 2002 the first commercial test for Hepatitis B virus (HBV) genotyping (INNO-LiPA HBV Genotyping).\n\nThe company was one of the first biotech companies to be listed on a European stock exchange, in 1996 it was the first biotech company listed on EASDAQ, now NASDAQ Europe. Until 2008 Innogenetics had its shares traded on Euronext Brussels.\n\nInnogenetics N.V. was acquired by Fujirebio Inc., a Japanese daughter company of Miraca Holdings Inc., in 2010 and changed name to Fujirebio Europe N.V. on October 1, 2013.\n\nIts products in the area of infectious diseases include screening and confirmation tests for HIV, HCV, HTLV and syphilis; genotyping tests for HCV, HBV, HPV and mycobacteria; and drug-resistance tests for TB and HBV. Innogenetics also offers genetic testing products for cystic fibrosis associated with genetic risks; tissue typing tests to determine the type of HLA; and neurodegeneration products including biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease. In the oncology area the company offers typing assays for detecting HR and LR papilloma virus as well as quantitative determination of hPLAP.\n\nThe company's main long-standing IVD product ranges are INNO-LiPA, INNO-LIATM, INNOTEST® and INNO-BIA and automation of LIA and LiPA can be done on the Auto-LIPA 48, Auto-LIATM 48, AutoBlot 3000H and AutoBlot 3000 platforms. In November 2011 Innogenetics also launched the Fujirebio-produced LUMIPULSE® G1200, a mid-sized and fully automated chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay (CLEIA) system, on the European market.\n\nIt has collaborative research, development, distribution, or licensing agreements with (non-exhaustive list): Abbott Diagnostics Inc., Diasorin S.p.A., Eli Lilly, GenMark Diagnostics Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, Hologic Inc. (formerly Third Wave Technologies Inc.), Immuno-Biological Laboratories Co. Ltd, Luminex Corporation, Quest Diagnostics Inc. (formerly Athena Diagnostics Inc.), Roche Group of Companies, Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics (formerly Bayer HealthCare LLC) and Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd.\n\nIts products are sold worldwide through its 6 subsidiaries and a large number of distributors. It is also member of the EDMA (European Diagnostic Manufacturers Association), the trade association that represents the IVD industry active in Europe.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7725990", "categories": ["Biotechnology companies of Belgium", "Pharmaceutical companies established in 1985", "Pharmaceutical companies of Belgium"], "title": "Innogenetics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726001", "text": "Battle of Moncontour\n\nThe Battle of Moncontour occurred on 3 October 1569 between the Catholic forces of King Charles IX of France, commanded by Henry, Duke of Anjou, and the Huguenots commanded by Gaspard de Coligny.\n\nWeeks before, Coligny had lifted the siege of Poitou and positioned his army in hopes of gaining an advantage over the approaching Royalist forces. However, a flanking maneuver by Saulx-Tavannes forced him to reposition his forces. This coincided with Henry's objective to keep Coligny's army from joining Gabriel, comte de Montgomery's forces. \n\nThe battle consisted of multiple charges by the royal forces, during which Coligny was wounded in the jaw, forcing Louis of Nassau to take command. Henry was subsequently unhorsed during a charge, but was saved by his bodyguards. Philibert, Margrave of Baden-Baden, who commanded the Royalist Germans, was killed during a cavalry charge. Nassau, in turn, charged the Swiss pikemen but made no headway. A final charge by Swiss pikemen shattered the Huguenot \"landsknechts\" line, in which over half were killed. As a result, three thousand Huguenots surrendered. Nassau and the rest of the cavalry were able to withdraw in good order.\n\nHenry then besieged Saint-Jean-d'Angély from 16 October to 2 December. Coligny regrouped, marched east into the Rhone and, months later, marched towards Paris.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7726001", "categories": ["1569 in France", "Battles of the French Wars of Religion", "Battles involving France", "Conflicts in 1569", "Battles in Nouvelle-Aquitaine"], "title": "Battle of Moncontour"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726007", "text": "NATO bombing of Novi Sad\n\nDuring the 1999 NATO bombing of Yugoslavia, the second largest Yugoslav city of Novi Sad was one of the cities that bore the brunt of the bombing. According to NATO press releases, the bombing targeted oil refineries, roads, bridges, and telecommunications relay stations, facilities which had military uses. The bombing of the city caused great damage to local civilians, including severe pollution and widespread ecological damage as well as lasting consequences for the well being of the population.\n\n\n\n\nThe civilians of Novi Sad were greatly affected by the bombing of their city. The city's oil refinery was bombarded daily, causing severe pollution and widespread ecological damage.\n\nThe bombing caused civilian deaths and injuries. Those who were not directly physically harmed suffer from consequences for their physical health caused by ecological damage as well as permanent consequences for psychological health caused by almost 3 months of trauma and fear. Due to the NATO attacks, many in Novi Sad were left jobless.\n\nNotably, NATO were accused of failing to give \"effective advance warning\" of attacks which may affect civilians, as required by Protocol I. One such attack where NATO was accused of this was the bombing of the Ministry of Education in Novi Sad, premises which administered social welfare programmes.\n\nThe NATO bombing left the city without any of its three Danube bridges, communications, water, and electricity, which severely impaired the day to day living of the residents of Novi Sad. All three bridges have been rebuilt as of 2018 Žeželj Bridge.\n\nWater supplies (including drinking water) for parts of the city were cut off as a result of the bombing. One attack cut off water supplies to 40,000 people in Petrovaradin, and severely disrupted water supplies to 300,000 people in Novi Sad. Services were restored only after two years, partially due to funding from Britain, one of the countries which bombed targets in the city in 1999.\n\nThe bombing of Novi Sad had implications for the environment. A United Nations study (the BTF ‘Industrial Sites’ and ‘Danube’ missions) found that there were serious environmental issues, \"requiring immediate action\", some of which resulted from the bombing. The bombing of Novi Sad's refinery caused fires which burned 50,000 tons of crude oil, sending toxins and carcinogens into the air and contaminating groundwater. The BTF study was complicated by the heavy pollution that existed before the bombing, with the group noting that \"the enforced shutdown of the refinery may even have led to local improvements in the aquatic environment, due to a possible reduction in chronic pollution\".\n\nOnce all the samples for Novi Sad (Danube Mission) were collated, \"\"based on field observation and results from sample analysis, the BTF concluded that there was no evidence of significant adverse impacts on the Danube aquatic environment as a result of air strikes on Novi Sad refinery. It is thought that most of the oils and oil products released were burned and that no significant volume entered the river\"\".\n\nThe BTF study also found that prior to the air strikes, local technicians helped minimise the potential harmful effects of air strikes by \"removing oil products that could be harmful to human health if spilt or burnt, such as transformer oil containing PCBs. Production was also accelerated to use up as much as possible of the crude oil, intermediate products and additives, and the final products were shipped to other locations. The remaining oil was mixed with gasoline, so that the tanks would ignite if hit, rather than leak into the soil and groundwater\". \n\nLocal scientists also studied the impact of the bombing. \"NATO didn’t use chemical weapons during the bombing\", said Dr. Zorka Vukmirović, a leading environmental physicist, \"But indirectly it caused the effects of chemical weapons use. If you release so many hazardous substances, major air pollutants and carcinogens in the vicinity of big cities like Belgrade and Niš, it is obviously a deliberate action against the civilian population\".\n\nNot until 2003, the Danube river was declared clear again. It took four years of work by the Danube Commission to remove the debris of bombed bridges and ordnance. The clearing of the debris was not only important for Novi Sad, but for European states (Hungary & Romania) who were economically impacted by the blockade of river traffic to the Black sea caused by the bombing.\n\nNATO was accused of committing war crimes due to the nature of some of the bombing raids. Some Novi Sad residents found it ironic that Novi Sad was so heavily targeted by NATO due to the fact that during the time of the bombing, the city was ruled by the local Democratic Opposition, which was against the regime in Belgrade. Therefore, some citizens of Novi Sad were not able to understand why the city was targeted heavily for the events in Kosovo.\n\nA press release one year on from the bombing by then NATO Secretary General Robertson, claims that NATO encountered complications from Yugoslav military use of civilian buildings and human shields. NATO officials have \"expressed deep regret at any civilian casualties it caused\". \n\nNATO claims that the bombing of targets such as bridges was aimed at impairing the Yugoslav Army's command and control structure. However, the efficacy of the campaign and choice of targets was brought into question by human rights groups, after bridges of no conceivable strategic relevance to the military situation in Kosovo were bombed, including a bridge which led to Hungary, a NATO country. MAICL argued that the civilian deaths caused were clearly disproportionate to the military benefits in response to NATO's justification of actions.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7726007", "categories": ["Aerial operations and battles of the Kosovo War", "Civilian casualties in the Kosovo War", "NATO airstrikes", "20th century in Novi Sad", "1999 in Serbia"], "title": "NATO bombing of Novi Sad"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726016", "text": "Characters in the Deverry cycle\n\nThis article lists some of the major characters in the Deverry Cycle by Katharine Kerr.\n\nNevyn is a traveling herbman—an apothecary-physician who practices herbal medicine. He is also a powerful sorcerer known as the Master of Aethyr. In his youth, he was Galrion, a prince of Deverry, but is stripped of that name along with all his rank and titles. His new name, Nevyn, means \"no one\" in the Deverrian language. When his selfish actions result in the death of Brangwen, his betrothed and a woman with the potential to be a great sorceress, Nevyn swears an oath \"not to rest\" until he set things right. Because his oath was accepted by powerful spirits called Great Ones, Nevyn is actually incapable of dying until he fulfills it.\n\nOther incarnations: Neb.\n\nCullyn is a wandering mercenary, who is renowned as the greatest swordsman in Deverry. Cullyn saves Rhodry Maelwaedd's life during Loddlaen's rebellion, and in gratitude the young lord accepts him into his service, even making Cullyn the captain of his warband. Cullyn died in the interval between the end of \"The Dragon Revenant\" and the beginning of \"A Time of Exile\".\n\nOther incarnations: Gerraent, Tanyc, Cinvan, Dannyn, Owaen, Danry, Gwairyc, Gerran.\n\nCarramaena is the daughter of a noble-born, but poor, family. When her miserly brother inherited the demesne, she ran off to avoid being forcibly married. She sought after her lover, Prince Daralanteriel of the Westfolk, and found him with Rhodry's help. Carramaena and Daralanteriel marry, and their child is the incarnation of the Guardian Elessario.\n\nOther incarnations: Ylaena, Bellyra, Glaenara\n\nCullyn's daughter, who has latent dweomer talent. As a child, she followed her father on his wanderings, and learned swordcraft from him. Jill becomes Rhodry's lover, following him into exile. After being separated from Rhodry, Jill is abducted by Perryn, who places her under his strange spell, though Salamander eventually rescues her. Perryn's influence causes Jill's latent dweomer abilities to manifest; she begins studying under Salamander to avoid being driven mad by supernatural forces. The two of them sail to Bardek to rescue Rhodry from slavery, but upon return to Deverry, she leaves Rhodry behind to become Nevyn's apprentice, and eventually succeeds him as Master of Aethyr. When the Horsekin laid siege to Cengarn, Jill assisted in the city's defence, and slew the mad Guardian Alshandra—though she died in the act.\n\nOther incarnations: Brangwen, Lyssa, Gweniver, Branoic, Morwen, Branna.\n\nPerryn is a landless lord who survives by mooching from his relatives and by theft. He has an unusual psychic ability which he uses to seduce women and steal horses, unaware that it consumes his life-force. He enthralls and abducts Jill. Salamander rescues her and has Perryn sent to Nevyn to save his life. \nHe later becomes a priest of the god Kerun.\n\nAderyn is the son of a bard, Gweran, and his wife, Lyssa. He is also Nevyn's former apprentice, and his dweomer skills include being able to transform into an owl. After he completes his apprenticeship, Aderyn leaves Deverry to live among the Westfolk. He marries a woman of the Westfolk, Dallandra, who bears him a son, Loddlaen. He was given an elven lifespan, a gift from the Guardian Evandar so that he may live to see his wife Dallandra again after she left the physical world to help Evandar and his people, where time runs differently. However, Evandar does not grant him the elven gift of youth, and he ages as a human does. After 7 days in Evandars world, Dallandra returns to Aderyn but almost 200 years have passed in the physical. By this time Aderyn had lost all hope of seeing Dallandra again. Though he suffered greatly within himself he could no longer return her love and Dallandra left him again to return to the guardians soon after birthing Alodalenterial (Loddlaen).\n\n[Rod-ree] Publicly believed to be the youngest son of Tingyr Maelwaedd, his father is in fact Devaberiel Silverhand, an elven bard—though only a handful of people know his true parentage. After Loddlaen's dweomer war, he is sent into political exile by his half-brother Rhys. During his wanderings, Rhodry is captured and sold as a slave in the Bardekian islands. When Rhys is mortally wounded, Rhodry is recalled from exile to take his brother's place as the Gwerbret of Aberwyn. When his true lineage is in danger of being discovered, Rhodry fakes his own death, and begins living among the Westfolk. Near the end of \"The Fire Dragon\", Rhodry undergoes a physical transformation as Evandar strives to save his life from Raena's stabbing.\n\nOther incarnations: Blaen, Gweran, Ricyn, Maddyn, Maer, Meddry\n\nLovyan's eldest son, and the Gwerbrert of Aberwyn. He despises Rhodry, who is generally better-liked. After Corbyn's rebellion, Rhys sent Rhodry into exile, to curry favour with his vassals, and to seize the lands Rhodry would have inherited upon Lovyan's death. Rhys has fertility problems. He was killed in a magically-contrived hunting accident.\n\nOther incarnations: Ridvar\n\nThe widow of the previous Gwerbret of Aberwyn, Tingyr Maelwaedd. She has four children, of which Rhodry is the only one still alive. Although Deverrian noblewomen do not usually hold titles or lands, Lovyan rules a large demesne in her own right.\n\nOther incarnations: Rodda, Cabrylla, Dolyan\n\nUsually known as Salamander for brevity. He is half-elven gerthddyn (a travelling singer and entertainer) as well as a journeyman dweomerworker. His manner of speaking is often overly verbose and flowery; Jill often addresses him as \"you chattering elf!\" In later books, he becomes a powerful dweomermaster in his own right, and spends more of his time travelling with his Westfolk kin. He is also Rhodry's half-brother, sharing a father, Devaberiel.\n\nAn elven dweomermaster (Wise One) and gem master who can use gems to scry and search for omens. She was Salamander's master in the craft, and her only lover was murdered by Loddlaen. In later books, she aids Dallandra and Salamander, as well as restores the horn that summons the Shadow Isle.\n\nThe half-human, half-elven son of Aderyn and Dallandra, Loddlaen was abandoned by his mother almost immediately after his birth. He was raised by his father, who doted upon him and even instructed him in sorcery. Although he has a natural talent for magic, Loddlaen is imbalanced because his foetal development was interrupted when his mother Dallandra first travels to the world of the guardians. He is eventually driven mad by the manipulation of an evil sorcerer who wish Rhodry Maelwaedd dead, he foments rebellion in the province of Eldidd.\n\nAn elven dweomer master. Although she was initially happily married to Aderyn, she left him and their son to be with her lover, Evandar, and to pursue her work of helping the race of Guardians incarnate. Later she has a daughter with Calonderiel, an elven warleader or banadar.\n\nA girl from the Rhiddaer. Sister to Jahdo. Dallandra's apprentice.\n\nOther incarnations: Lillorigga, Lanmara\n\nBoy from the Rhiddaer. Accompanies Meer, the blind bard, in search of Meer's brother. Brother to Niffa.\n\nEvandar, who possesses near-limitless dweomer ability, is the leader of the Bright Court (also called the Seelie Host). He is Alshandra's husband and Elessario's father-figure. He seems to enjoy meddling in the affairs of mortals, to the point that some Gel Da Thae worship him as a god.\n\nAlshandra is Evandar's wife, and Elessario's mother-figure. When Elessario becomes the first Guardian to incarnate, Alshandra's grief and rage drive her mad. In an attempt to get Elessario back, Alshandra poses as a goddess to the Horsekin, setting off a chain of events that causes the first Horsekin invasion of Deverry.\n\nAlshandra's daughter.\n\nEvandar's younger brother, and leader of the Dark (Unseelie) Court\n\nBlind bard of the Gel da'Thae. Had a geas laid upon him by his mother to find his brother.\n\nA dwarven silversmith. He was exiled from dwarven lands because he would not pay a debt. Bellyra is considered by most to be the only person he ever loved. He created the first of many silver daggers, as well as the ring used to enslave Arzosah. He also built the silver box used to contain the curse on Maryn.\n\nA copper, green and black dragon who dwells in the far northern mountains. Her true name, Arzosah Sothy Lorezohaz, is inscribed on a ring which gives its owner the power to command her. Compelled by the power of her true name, she assisted in the defence of Cengarn. Rhodry and she become friends, and he gives her the ring at the end of \"Days of Blood and Fire\", freeing her. In \"The Fire Dragon\" Arzosah considers him her first true friend, and in the last books we learn that in his dragon form Rori (Rhodry's dragon name) has become Arzosah's mate and has dragon children by her.\n\n", "id": "7726016", "categories": ["Deverry Cycle", "Fictional Celtic people"], "title": "Characters in the Deverry cycle"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726020", "text": "Maple Shade High School\n\nMaple Shade High School is a comprehensive community public high school that serves students in seventh through twelfth grades from Maple Shade Township, in Burlington County, New Jersey, United States, operating as the lone secondary school of the Maple Shade School District.\n\nAs of the 2015-16 school year, the school had an enrollment of 858 students and 71.1 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 12.1:1. There were 278 students (32.4% of enrollment) eligible for free lunch and 78 (9.1% of students) eligible for reduced-cost lunch.\n\nPrior to the school's opening in 1972, the township's students had attended Merchantville High School in neighboring Camden County for 40 years. With the loss of Maple Shade students, the Merchantville School District closed its high school after the end of the 1971-72 school year and started sending its students to Pennsauken High School for grades nine through twelve.\n\nThe school was the 267th-ranked public high school in New Jersey out of 339 schools statewide in \"New Jersey Monthly\" magazine's September 2014 cover story on the state's \"Top Public High Schools\", using a new ranking methodology. The school had been ranked 281st in the state of 328 schools in 2012, after being ranked 301st in 2010 out of 322 schools listed. The magazine ranked the school 271st in 2008 out of 316 schools. The school was ranked 253rd in the magazine's September 2006 issue, which surveyed 316 schools across the state. Schooldigger.com ranked the school 189th out of 381 public high schools statewide in its 2011 rankings (a decrease of 19 positions from the 2010 ranking) which were based on the combined percentage of students classified as proficient or above proficient on the two components of the High School Proficiency Assessment (HSPA), mathematics (80.0%) and language arts literacy (91.9%).\n\n\"The students, parents, staff, and administrators of the Maple Shade school district are a community of learners, each responsible for supporting one another in reaching our highest potential.\"\n\nStudents complete both midterms and final examinations. The test scores make up ten percent each of the student's final grade, with each academic quarter constituting twenty percent each. Academic awards are given as Principal's Honor Roll (4.0-5.2; nothing below 90), High Honor Roll (3.4-3.999; nothing below 80), and Honor Roll (2.8-3.399; nothing below 77). For entrance into National Honor Society students must have a cumulative average of 3.5. In 2008, the MPHS school board approved a new honors program that would allow eighth grade students to begin taking high school courses. Acceptance into the honors program is based on not just on grades, but also more subjective criteria including student interviews, essays, and parent nominations. MPHS students have the opportunity to earn college credits through Burlington County College for taking certain courses at the school. The credits are potentially transferable to a student's future institution of higher education.\n\nMaple Shade High School compete in the Burlington County Scholastic League (BCSL) a sports association under the jurisdiction of the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association (NJSIAA), consisting of public and non-public high schools covering Burlington County, Mercer County and Ocean County in Central Jersey. With 432 students in grades 10-12, the school was classified by the NJSIAA for the 2015-16 school year as South Jersey, Group I for most athletic competition purposes, which included schools with an enrollment of 78 to 478 students in that grade range. The football team competes in the Freedom Division of the 95-team West Jersey Football League superconference and was classified by the NJSIAA as Central Jersey Group I for football for 2017-18. The mascot of Maple Shade is the Wildcat; the school's colors are royal blue and gold.\n\nThe boys' baseball team won the South Jersey Group I state sectional championship in 2008 against Pitman High School, their first sectional title victory since 1982.\n\nThe boys' soccer team reached the South Jersey Group I sectional finals in 2010 but lost 3-0 against Pitman High School. The boys' 2011 soccer team again reached the South Jersey Group I finals, this time losing to eventual state champion Haddon Township High School by a score of 3-2.\n\nThe field hockey team won the Central Jersey Group I state sectional title in 2012.\n\nCore members of the schools' administration include:\n\n", "id": "7726020", "categories": ["Maple Shade Township, New Jersey", "Public high schools in Burlington County, New Jersey", "Educational institutions established in 1972", "1972 establishments in New Jersey"], "title": "Maple Shade High School"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726021", "text": "Moncontour\n\nMoncontour may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7726021", "categories": [], "title": "Moncontour"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726023", "text": "Julian Darby\n\nJulian Timothy Darby (born 3 October 1967) is an English former professional footballer who played as a defender and midfielder from 1986 until 2001, notably in the Premier League for Coventry City.\n\nHe also played for Bolton Wanderers, West Bromwich Albion, Preston North End, Rotherham United and Carlisle United. During his coaching career he has coached at Nottingham Forest, Derby County, Bolton Wanderers and Preston North End.\n\nHe played for Bolton Wanderers from 1986 to 1993, scoring 36 goals in 270 league appearances. He scored in the 1989 Associate Members Cup final, with Bolton beating Torquay United 4–1 at Wembley Stadium, in a side captained by future Derby boss Phil Brown. He subsequently joined Coventry City in 1993 but after 50+ games for them was transferred to West Bromwich Albion on 16 November 1995, making his debut for them shortly afterwards against Sunderland. In 1997, he moved to Preston North End, and following a loan spell at Rotherham United he transferred to Carlisle United in 2000 before retiring as a player in 2001.\n\nHe started his coaching career at Preston and became first-team coach. He joined Billy Davies as first-team coach at Derby County in 2006.\n\nIn January 2009 he again joined up with Billy Davies when he was appointed first team coach at Nottingham Forest. He left in June 2011 following the departure of Billy Davies from the club and the appointment of his successor Steve McLaren.\n\nIn 2012, he returned to Bolton as U16 coach at the club's youth academy he assisted Jimmy Phillips during his brief stint as Caretaker Manager following Owen Coyle's sacking in October 2012.\n\nOn 7 February 2013, he returned to Nottingham Forest as first team coach to Billy Davies. Darby left the club after Fawaz Al-Hasawi brought an end to Davies' reign as Manager at the club on 24 March 2014. On 20 November 2014, Darby settled with Forest out of court over an unpaid bonus case.\n\nOn 2 July 2015, it was announced that Darby had joined Uwe Rosler's backroom staff at Leeds United as first team coach.\n\nIn August 2017, it was confirmed that Darby had taken on a full-time role at the Bolton Wanderers academy, having spent the previous season coaching the U-16 team.\n\nPlayer\n\n", "id": "7726023", "categories": ["Coventry City F.C. players", "Carlisle United F.C. players", "People from Farnworth", "1967 births", "Bolton Wanderers F.C. players", "Preston North End F.C. players", "English Football League players", "Rotherham United F.C. players", "Premier League players", "Living people", "English footballers", "Derby County F.C. non-playing staff", "Bolton Wanderers F.C. non-playing staff", "Preston North End F.C. non-playing staff", "Association football midfielders", "West Bromwich Albion F.C. players", "Nottingham Forest F.C. non-playing staff", "People educated at Bolton School"], "title": "Julian Darby"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726042", "text": "Electronic performance support systems\n\nAn electronic performance support system (EPSS) is any computer software program or component that improves user performance.\n\nEPSSs can help an organization to reduce the cost of training staff while increasing productivity and performance. They can empower employees to perform tasks with a minimum amount of external intervention or training. By using this type of system an employee, especially a new employee, will often not only be able to complete his or her work more quickly and accurately, but, as a secondary benefit, will also learn more about the job and the employer's business.\n\nAn EPSS is best considered when\nThese situations often occur when new systems (e.g. customer relationship management, enterprise resource planning) are introduced, upgraded or consolidated, and in certain call centres when agents must perform using complex systems, processes or products.\n\nThere are different views about the components and characteristics of EPSS. For example, from Barker and Banerji’s (1995) point of view, an EPSS has four functional levels, which should be brought together:\n\n\nIn \"Electronic Performance Support Systems\", Gloria Gery defined EPSS as:\nan integrated electronic environment that is available to and easily \naccessible by each employee and is structured to provide immediate, individualized \non-line access to the full range of information, software, guidance, advice and \nassistance, data, images, tools, and assessment and monitoring systems to permit \njob performance with minimal support and intervention by others.\nAlso, in 1991, Barry Raybould gave a shorter definition:\na computer-based system that improves worker productivity by providing on-the-job access to integrated information, advice, and learning experiences.\n\nFrom a business perspective, a former Nortel Networks executive, William Bezanson (2002) provided a definition linked to application usability and organizational results: A performance support system provides just-in-time, just enough training, information, tools, and help for users of a product or work environment, to enable optimum performance by those users when and where needed, thereby also enhancing the performance of the overall business.\n\nAn EPSS must be distinguished from a traditional online help system. Online help usually supports a single software application and is not necessarily focused on the entire range of job tasks (which may involve multiple applications), but just that specific software. With online help, cross-referencing is often not available and the information provided is limited and rarely combined with procedures or complex tasks. Perhaps most critically, on-line help cannot be customized to the user or the job task; in fact, the same software screen may require different inputs depending on the user and job task. Online help is also not contextual to the user's current situation and requires users to search through for the solution to their problem. \n\nEPSS must also be differentiated from e-learning simulations that replay a series of steps on-demand within a software application. Simulations are more closely associated with on-demand training, not just-in-time support, because of the longer time considerations, complexity, and media restrictions for playing a simulation. An EPSS can be considered a part of the e-learning category, as it is on-demand learning, and notes that the EPSS modality fits more within the informal learning definition.\n\nIn his book, Bezanson points out that \"knowledge management\" is the noun corresponding to the verb of \"performance support\". The knowledge documented in the system plays a critical role in any EPSS system. This concept was originated by Raybould (1997) who separates out the repository, delivery and infrastructure aspects of the EPSS from the knowledge base it contains. In fact, Bezanson emphasizes the advantage that an LMS (learning management system) will interface with the EPSS to supply the knowledge base, content-courseware, or other tracking capabilities that an EPSS may require if the LMS precedes the implementation of the EPSS.\n\nEPSS's role in the future of training and work have been noted by followers of the trend towards more informal learning systems driven by knowledge management systems.\nTony O'Driscoll (1999) summarizes: \n\nTo this day, analysts such as Forrester's Claire Schooley and Bersin & Associates' Chris Howard write similarly themed articles based on their research in informal learning, technology and training.\n\n\n", "id": "7726042", "categories": ["Educational technology"], "title": "Electronic performance support systems"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726046", "text": "Elijah (disambiguation)\n\nElijah was a prophet in Israel in the 9th century BCE.\n\nElijah may also refer to:\n\n\n\n", "id": "7726046", "categories": [], "title": "Elijah (disambiguation)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726048", "text": "The Miracle (play)\n\nThe Miracle () is a 1911 play written by Karl Vollmöller and directed by Max Reinhardt, from which three movie versions were later adapted. The play first appeared as a spectacle-pantomime in Germany in 1911.\n\nThe play opened in London in 1912 and was revived on Broadway in 1924 after a tour of Detroit, Milwaukee and Dallas. The New York version, which opened January 16, 1924 at the Century Theatre was produced by Morris Gest, and starred Rosamond Pinchot as the Nun and Lady Diana Cooper and Maria Carmi alternating nightly in the role of the Madonna.\n\n\"The Miracle\" re-told an old legend about a nun in the Middle Ages who runs away from her convent with a knight, and subsequently has several mystical adventures, eventually leading to her being accused of witchcraft. During her absence, the statue of the Virgin Mary in the convent's chapel comes to life and takes the nun's place in the convent, until her safe return. The play launched the career of Maria Carmi who went on to star in 25 silent films.\n\nThe play has its origins in a 12th-century legend which Spanish writer José Zorrilla y Moral turned into a dramatic poem entitled \"Margarita La Tornera\" (Margarita the Gatekeeper). The poem differs from \"The Miracle\" in resetting the story in 19th-century Spain, as the 1959 film would do, and in not letting the reader know that the statue has taken the nun's place in the convent until nearly the very end. Zorrilla's poem was made 1909 into an opera (\"Margarita la tornera\") by Spanish zarzuela composer Ruperto Chapí. It was his last work before his death. The poem was also loosely adapted into a Spanish film, \"Milagro de amor\", in 1946.\n\nThe play was adapted into film three times. The original authorized version was a British financed, full-length, hand-colored, black-and-white film \"The Miracle\", filmed in Austria in 1912. In the same year an unauthorized German version was filmed, titled \"Das Mirakel\". In 1959 the play was adapted to film a third time, by Warner Brothers, again titled \"The Miracle\", directed by Irving Rapper.\n\n\n", "id": "7726048", "categories": ["German plays", "German plays adapted into films", "1911 plays"], "title": "The Miracle (play)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726050", "text": "TI (cuneiform)\n\nCuneiform TI or TÌL (Borger 2003 nr. ; U+122FE 𒋾) has the main meaning of \"life\" when used ideographically. The written sign developed from the drawing of an arrow, since the words meaning \"arrow\" and \"life\" were pronounced similarly in the Sumerian language.\n\nWith the determinative UZU 𒍜 \"flesh, meat\", TI, it means \"rib\". This homophony is exploited in the myth of Ninti (𒊩𒌆𒋾 NIN.TI \"lady of life\" or \"lady of the rib\"), created by Ninhursag to cure the ailing Enki. Since Eve is called \"mother of life\" in Genesis, together with her being taken from Adam's \"tsela`\" \"side, rib\", the story of Adam and Eve has sometimes been considered to derive from that of Ninti.\n\nIn Akkadian orthography, the sign has the syllabic values \"di\" or \"ṭi\", in Hittite \"ti\", \"di\" or \"te\".\n\nThe twelve tablet (I-XII) Epic of Gilgamesh uses the ti sign as follows (Parpola): ti (387 times), and TI (the sumerogram), (2 times). In the Epic, sumerogram TI is used for the Akkadian language word \"balāṭu\", for \"life; to live\", as \"TI.LA\", in one location, Tablet XI 174, (and replacement in two locations, also as TI.LA in Tablets X, and XI).\nFor the mid 14th century BC Amarna letters, letter EA 365 authored by Biridiya, harvesting in Nuribta, ti is used for \"ti\", and \"ṭi\". For example, on the reverse of EA 365, subject of corvee labor, harvesting, lines 17 and 18 translate as follows:\n\n", "id": "7726050", "categories": ["Sumerian words and phrases", "Akkadian language"], "title": "TI (cuneiform)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726051", "text": "Starr Mill\n\nTwo 19th century factory buildings are sited on a bank beside Starr Mill pond on Beverly Heights just off Middlefield Street. Each building is 3½ stories tall, and overlooks a picturesque pond and woods to the west; a parking lot packed with trucks and industrial equipment on the south; and nineteenth century housing on Beverly Heights to the north.\n\nNathan Starr, Sr., a scythe manufacturer, purchased land on the West (no Coginchaug) River in Staddle Hill in 1799. Joined by his son, Nathan Jr. in 1812, Starr began the first of a long series of government contracts to produce swords, pistols, and eventually rifles. They constructed a factory here in 1812, which is probably the easternmost building sited by the pond. After Nathan Sr's death in 1821, his son carried on the business until 1845. During this period some 70,000 arms of varied kinds were made here, as well as a number of commemorative swords for national heroes, such as Andrew Jackson.\n\nFrom 1845 to 1864 the factory was relatively inactive. In the latter year the Russell Manufacturing Company bought the property; in 1865 they erected the building immediately to the west of the original plant in a similar height, scale, material, and style. This was an auxiliary operation, complementing the main South Farms factories; Russell conducted manufacturing here for some ninety years. A plumbing products firm and then a lighting fixture company ran short-lived manufacturing operations here; the facilities were vacant in the late 1960s. Joseph J. Vinci bought the property in 1971. Several small businesses currently operate here, including a cabinetmaker, garment shop and welding outfit.\n\nThe Starr Mill is an archetypical nineteenth century mill: a tall, many-windowed brick building beside a mill pond. There have been few major exterior alterations. Rounded-arched brownstone sluiceways (now bricked up) run beneath the building. On each end of the building three gable end chimney stacks terminate in the attic. Artifacts from former functions of the mill abound. A late 19th century turbine lines in the water near the southeastern corner of the earlier building.\n\nThis complex is a well-preserved and significant industrial site which has been successfully adapted to light manufacturing uses. The buildings are presently used for mixed use of retail, office, artist studios, professional service space and storage. The structures are well maintained.\n\n\n", "id": "7726051", "categories": ["Landmarks in Connecticut", "Industrial buildings completed in 1812", "Industrial buildings and structures on the National Register of Historic Places in Connecticut", "Buildings and structures in Middletown, Connecticut"], "title": "Starr Mill"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726060", "text": "Remington Model 241\n\nThe Remington Arms Model 241 Speedmaster, an autoloading rimfire rifle, was manufactured from 1935 to 1951 from a John Browning design. Remington reports that 107,345 rifles were manufactured in .22 Short or .22 Long Rifle. A similar rifle is currently being sold by Browning Arms Company (the Browning SA-22 Browning 22 Semi-Auto rifle).\n\nThe Remington Model 241 (and indeed all the semi-automatic .22 rifles based on John Browning's design) is a takedown design in which the barrel can be easily separated from the receiver to shorten the rifle's length for ease in transporting.\n\nWhen Remington brought out the Model 241 in 1935 it replaced the Model 24 which, although of slightly smaller size (and having a few other differences), was also based on John Browning's semi-automatic .22 rifle design.\n\nThe Remington Model 241 is very similar to the Browning SA-22 with the significant difference being the way in which the barrels are adjusted so that they fit snuggly against the receivers when the rifles are fully assembled. This barrel tightening feature is made necessary due to their takedown designs (a means must be provided so that the barrel is sufficiently tight when coupled to the receiver and yet not so tight as to make disengaging the barrel from the receiver overly difficult).\n\nWhereas the Browning SA-22's barrel tightening is accomplished with an adjusting ring at the base of the barrel (and can easily be seen) where it butts up against the receiver - the Remington Model 241's barrel tightening mechanism uses a dual-sided nut (with an interrupted-screw thread in the interior and a full thread cut into the exterior) riding inside the threaded hole in the front of the receiver (only visible when the barrel is separated from the receiver). Selecting how deeply the dual-sided nut sits in the receiver (with the dual-sided nut's exterior thread meshing with the thread cut into the hole in the front of the receiver) controls how tightly the barrel fits against the receiver when it is attached (the rifle is assembled).\n\nPersons wishing to make adjustments to the Model 241's barrel tightening mechanism must become familiar not only with the use of the dual-sided nut (that fits in the hole in the front of the receiver) but also how that nut is locked in-place (so that it will not accidentally turn once it has been set as desired). What appears to be a flat blade screw head on the right side of the Model 241's receiver, that can easily be mistaken as a screw to lock the dual-sided nut in place, is actually a cosmetic affectation on what has sometimes been described as a 'slug' (instead of having threads on its sides as would a screw it has smooth sides). While the slug does indeed press (inside the receiver) against the outside of the dual-sided nut (and thus keeps the dual-sided nut from rotating) it does not have its pressure against the outside of the dual-sided nut adjusted by rotating (as it would were it a screw) but instead the slug is held pressing against the outside of the dual-sided nut by first being simply pushed against the outside of the dual-sided nut (by pressing down on the slug's flat blade screw head appearance on the right side of the receiver) and then a screw (the actual locking-screw) presses against the side of the slug (inside the receiver) and thus prevents it from moving. That locking-screw is oriented such that it comes in (to press against the side of the slug) from the direction of the front face of the receiver (and so is only visible when the barrel is separated from the receiver).\n\nTo adjust the Model 241's barrel tightness it is necessary to first loosen the dual-sided nut so that it can rotate and thus have its depth within the receiver changed. To loosen the dual-sided nut requires that the 'slug' pressing against it be loosened and to accomplish that the locking-screw (accessible from the face of the receiver when the barrel is removed) must be backed-out so that it isn't pressing against the slug. The slug is then jiggled (by a gentle rocking action on the false screw head of the exterior appearance of the slug - no attempt should be made to rotate the slug as if it were a screw as it has a machined appearance meshing with the outer threads of the dual-sided nut) and that will be sufficient so that the slug disengages (within the receiver) from the outside of the dual-sided nut (so the dual-sided nut is then free to be adjusted). The Model 241's elegant barrel tightening mechanism can be damaged if these steps are not followed.\n", "id": "7726060", "categories": [".22 LR rifles", "Semi-automatic rifles", "Remington Arms firearms", "Rifles of the United States"], "title": "Remington Model 241"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726065", "text": "Elm, Pennsylvania\n\nElm is an unincorporated community in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania in the United States. The community is in the Lancaster metropolitan area and in the Eastern Standard time zone.\n\nThe latitude of Elm is 40.203N. The longitude is -76.349W. Its elevation is 604 feet.\n", "id": "7726065", "categories": ["Unincorporated communities in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania"], "title": "Elm, Pennsylvania"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726067", "text": "Markus–Yamabe conjecture\n\nIn mathematics, the Markus–Yamabe conjecture is a conjecture on global asymptotic stability. The conjecture states that if a continuously differentiable map on an formula_1-dimensional real vector space has a fixed point, and its Jacobian matrix is everywhere Hurwitz, then the fixed point is globally stable.\n\nThe conjecture is true for the two-dimensional case. However, counterexamples have been constructed in higher dimensions. Hence, in the two-dimensional case \"only\", it can also be referred to as the Markus–Yamabe theorem.\n\nRelated mathematical results concerning global asymptotic stability, which \"are\" applicable in dimensions higher than two, include various autonomous convergence theorems. Analog of the conjecture for nonlinear control system with scalar nonlinearity is known as Kalman's conjecture.\n\nThe conjecture is true for formula_9 and false in general for formula_10.\n\n", "id": "7726067", "categories": ["Conjectures", "Fixed points (mathematics)", "Stability theory"], "title": "Markus–Yamabe conjecture"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726072", "text": "Chris Walley\n\nChris Walley (born 1954 in Wales) is a geologist, author, and tertiary education lecturer.\n\nChris Walley was born in Wales in 1954; however, he grew up in northern England. He received a Bachelor of Science in geology from Sheffield University and a Phd from the University of Wales, Swansea. He taught at the American University of Beirut (AUB) in Lebanon from 1980–84, where he met his wife and where his two sons John and Mark were born.\n\nFrom 1984–94 he was based in Swansea where he was a consultant for the oil industry. He did fieldwork in a number of African and Asian countries and wrote numerous synthesis volumes on the geology of different countries. In the late eighties, he began writing in his spare time. He had two novels, \"Heart of Stone\" and \"Rock of Refuge\", published under the pseudonym of John Haworth.\n\nIn 1994, he was asked to return to Lebanon to rebuild the Department of Geology at AUB and lived there with his family until 1998. During that time he carried out both teaching and research duties was also involved in setting up a large environmental project in the Bekaa with A Rocha Lebanon.\n\nIn 1998, he returned to the United Kingdom and began to make a new career in writing and editing, in particular for the Christian market. He retained his geological interests, however, and led field trips for Wheaton College, Illinois.\n\nIn September 2004 he started teaching again, geology and geography, at Gorseinon College, now Gower College Swansea. He now teaches geology and environmental science there full-time while writing in his spare time.\n\nIn summer 2014 Chris took the opportunity to take early retirement from teaching in order to take up the voluntary position of Mediterranean Conservation Science Coordinator with www.arocha.org. To do this more effectively, he and his wife moved to the south of France, where they are based between the two A Rocha France centres of Courmettes (Alpes-Maritimes) and Tourades (near Arles). He has a particularly strong link with the Domaine des Courmettes.\n\nAs John Haworth, he wrote two thrillers, which were published in the United States by Crossway; and have also been translated into Swedish and German: \"Heart of Stone\" and \"Rock of Refuge\". These are now available under his own name as Kindle ebooks.\n\nUnder his own name, he wrote \"The Lamb Among the Stars\" series. The first two volumes, \"The Shadow at Evening\" and \"The Power of the Night\", were republished by Tyndale in October 2006 as one hardback volume: \"The Shadow and Night\". The next in the series, \"The Dark Foundations\", was published at the same time. The last volume, \"The Infinite Day\" was first published by Tyndale in May 2008.\n\nChris has also co-authored a number of non-fiction books, particularly \"The Life: A Portrait of Jesus\" (Authentic, 2003), with J. John.\n\n\n\"The Lamb Among the Stars\" series\n\n\n", "id": "7726072", "categories": ["American University of Beirut faculty", "Welsh male novelists", "Alumni of Swansea University", "Living people", "British thriller writers", "Welsh fantasy writers", "Alumni of the University of Sheffield", "Welsh science fiction writers", "Welsh geologists"], "title": "Chris Walley"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726083", "text": "Clay High School\n\nClay High School may refer to:\n\n\n", "id": "7726083", "categories": [], "title": "Clay High School"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726086", "text": "Nicocles (Salamis)\n\nNicocles (, \"Nikoklēs\") was an Ancient Greek Cyprus king of Salamis, Cyprus. In 374/3 BC, he succeeded his (presumed) father Evagoras I. Nicocles continued the philhellenic politics of his father. Nicocles died probably together with Straton of Sidon during the revolt of satraps (362 to 360 BC v. Chr.). He was followed as the Cypriot king of Salamis by his son Evagoras II.\n\nSome authors have proposed that Nicocles had participated in the conspiracy to which his father Evagoras fell a victim. But there is no authority for this supposition. Rather this idea seems to have arisen as a means of explaining the strange error made by Diodorus in considering Nicocles as the eunuch who assassinated Evagoras.\n\nLittle is known of the reign of Nicocles, but it appears to have been one of peace and prosperity. Based on statements of his panegyrist Isocrates (who addressed two of his orations to him and has made him the subject of another), under his rule his kingdom flourished, he replenished the treasury, which had been exhausted by his father's wars, without oppressing his subjects with exorbitant taxes, and behaved in all respects as the model of a mild and equitable ruler. Isocrates also extols him also for his interest in literature and philosophy, and provides proof of this by noting that Nicocles rewarding Isocrates for his panegyric with the magnificent present of twenty talents (Vit. X. Orat. p. 838, a.). The orator also praises him for the purity of his domestic relations; although Theopompus and Anaximenes of Lampsacus (ap. Athen. xii. p. 531) state that he was a person of luxurious habits who had vied with Straton, king of Sidon, in the splendour and refinement of his feasts and other sensual indulgences. Theopompus and Anaximenes of Lampsacus also state that Nicocles ultimately perished as the result of a violent death, but neither the date nor the circumstances surrounding this event are recorded.\n", "id": "7726086", "categories": ["People from Salamis", "Ancient Greek rulers", "4th-century BC Greek people", "Year of birth unknown", "Kings of Salamis, Cyprus"], "title": "Nicocles (Salamis)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726093", "text": "Ninti\n\nNinti is the Sumerian goddess of life.\n\nNinti is also one of the eight goddesses of healing who was created by Ninhursag to heal Enki’s body. Her specific healing area was the rib (sumerian Ti means rib and to live). Enki had eaten forbidden flowers and was then cursed by Ninhursaga, who was later persuaded by the other gods to heal him. Some scholars suggest that this served as the basis for the story of Eve created from Adam's rib in the Book of Genesis.\n\nThe System of a Down song \"Darts\" from their debut eponymous album features the lyric \"Arise as did the gods Ninti, arise as did the gods Ninti...\"\n", "id": "7726093", "categories": ["Mesopotamian goddesses"], "title": "Ninti"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726113", "text": "Paul Osborn\n\nPaul Osborn (September 4, 1901 – May 12, 1988) was an American playwright and screenwriter. Osborn's notable original plays are \"The Vinegar Tree\", \"Oliver Oliver\", and \"Morning's at Seven\" and among his several successful adaptations, \"On Borrowed Time\" has proved particularly popular. Counted among his best-known screenplays would be the adaptation of John Steinbeck's \"East of Eden\" and \"Wild River\" for his friend Elia Kazan, \"South Pacific\" and \"Sayonara\" directed by Joshua Logan, as well as \"Madame Curie\", \"The Yearling\", and \"Portrait of Jennie\".\n\nBorn in Evansville, Indiana, he grew up in Michigan where his father was a Baptist minister. He went on to graduate from the University of Michigan. At the university, he formed a lasting friendship with Poet-in-Residence Robert Frost and earned a B.A. in English and an M.A. in psychology. Following a brief stint as a student of George Pierce Baker, the noted teacher of dramatic form and founder of the Yale School of Drama at Yale University, he made his debut on Broadway in 1928 with the play \"Hotbed\". His next play \"A Ledge\" was produced the following season.\n\nIn 1930, Osborn found singular success on Broadway with a comedy titled \"The Vinegar Tree\" that starred Mary Boland. He contributed the comedy \"Oliver Oliver\" to the 1934 Broadway season, and in 1984 that play won critical acclaim at the Long Wharf Theater and the Philadelphia Drama Guild with Boyd Gaines in the title role. On the opening night in New Haven, the audience gave \"Oliver Oliver\" a standing ovation; and Osborn, who suffered macular degeneration, quipped, \"I thought they were standing to get their coats.\"\n\nAlthough often noted for his adaptations, Osborn's 1939 comedy, \"Morning's at Seven\", became one of Osborn's most enduring original works. It was revived on Broadway in 1980, directed by Vivian Matalon, with an outstanding cast (Teresa Wright, Maureen O'Sullivan, Nancy Marchand and Elizabeth Wilson). It was hailed by Harold Clurman \"as one of the best American comedies\" \"Morning's at Seven\" has been presented several times on television, including a version directed by Matalon, but was never filmed for the big screen. In 2002 the Lincoln Center Theater mounted a well-received production with Elizabeth Franz, Frances Sternhagen, Piper Laurie and Estelle Parsons as the four sisters. The play received numerous nominations for awards, as did the acting ensemble, with Elizabeth Franz cited in particular\n\nOsborn's dramatization of \"On Borrowed Time\" has had three productions on Broadway, Joshua Logan directed the premiere in 1938 with Dudley Digges, Frank Conroy and Dorothy Stickney leading the cast. The 1953 revival featured Victor Moore, Leo G. Carroll and Beulah Bondi; and in 1991 George C. Scott directed himself, Nathan Lane and Teresa Wright in the play. The 1939 MGM movie of \"On Borrowed Time\" stars Lionel Barrymore, Cedric Hardwicke and Bobs Watson and Beulah Bondi. Osborn's rich contribution to the American theater includes the adaptations \"A Bell for Adano\" (1944); \"Point of No Return\"; \"The World of Susie Wong\"; \"The Innocent Voyage\"; and an original verse play, based on Greek myths, \"Maiden Voyage\".\n\nPaul Osborn had a gift for friendship: Al Hirchfeld, Elia Kazan, Robert Frost. Frost, while becoming America's most noted poet, remained a close friend, intrigued by theater and travelling to New York for Osborn's first nights. Frost hoped to write a play in collaboration with his former student.\n\n\"Tomorrow's Monday\", a somewhat autobiographical play, was written in 1935-36. It was first produced at the Brattleboro Theatre in Vermont, in the summer of 1936 and had its New York premiere fifty years later at the Circle Repertory Company in the fall of 1985. According to Kent Paul, who directed that production, Al Hirschfeld, the New York Times theater artist, remarked to his friend Osborn, \"I like \"Tomorrow's Monday\" even more than \"Morning's at Seven\".\"\n\nElia Kazan, in his autobiography \"A Life\", credits Osborn with guiding him to the section of the novel \"East of Eden\" to film as well as discovering James Dean for the film. In his documentary \"A Letter to Elia\", Martin Scorsese argues that the little known \"Wild River\", which stars Montgomery Clift, Lee Remick and Jo Van Fleet, is among Kazan's finest achievements. Osborn's screenplay for \"Wild River\" is an outstanding literary achievement, providing scope for Kazan's directorial imagination.\n\nRodgers & Hammerstein and the director Joshua Logan first asked Osborn to write the book for \"South Pacific\" when it was done for the stage (Logan himself finally did it), and achieved their objective when Osborn agreed to make the screenplay.\n\nPaul Osborn and his wife Millicent, a fiction writer, lived in New York. Before their marriage in 1939 (Osborn's second), Millicent Green had had a successful career as an actress on Broadway, in \"Machinal\" with Clark Gable and in \"Street Scene\", a performance that is captured in a Hirschfeld drawing included in his book with Brooks Atkinson, \"The Lively Years 1920 - 1973\" (\"Morning's at Seven\" is one of the plays cited and discussed.) Problems with his eyesight left Osborn virtually blind his latter years when he dictated a lengthy memoir that he never finished \"because I can't read it\". The memoir remains unpublished.\n\nOsborn received a Tony Award for Best Broadway Revival in 1980 for \"Morning's at Seven\". He had received Academy Award nominations for the screenplays to \"Sayonara\" and \"East of Eden\", and Writers Guild of America nominations for \"South Pacific\", \"Sayonara\" and \"East of Eden\". In 1982, two years after the Tony for \"Morning's at Seven\", Osborn won the Laurel Award for Screenwriting Achievement from the Writers Guild of America.\n\n", "id": "7726113", "categories": ["1901 births", "1988 deaths", "University of Michigan alumni", "Screenwriters from New York (state)", "20th-century American male writers", "American male dramatists and playwrights", "Broadway theatre people", "Writers from Evansville, Indiana", "20th-century American dramatists and playwrights", "American male screenwriters"], "title": "Paul Osborn"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726117", "text": "Children of Bodom discography\n\nThe discography of Children of Bodom, a five-piece melodic death metal band from Espoo, Finland. Throughout their career, the band has been known to incorporate many different musical styles, leading critics and fans to label them as everything from melodic death metal and black metal to thrash metal, progressive metal and even power metal.\nThe current band line-up includes the founders Alexi Laiho (lead vocals, lead guitar) and Jaska Raatikainen (drums) along with Henkka Seppälä (bass), Janne Wirman (keyboards) and Daniel Freyberg (rhythm guitar). Children of Bodom have released nine studio albums, two live albums, one compilation album, seven singles, two EP's and two split singles. Moreover, in the period 1994–1996 they released three demos under their old moniker, \"IneartheD\". This list includes the material released as IneartheD.\n\nChildren of Bodom's first release under their new name was the split single \"Children of Bodom\", released in January 1997. Their debut album \"Something Wild\" followed later the same year. 1999 saw the release of two Children of Bodom albums: their second studio album, \"Hatebreeder\", and their first live album, titled \"Tokyo Warhearts\".\nIn 2001 they released their third studio album, \"Follow the Reaper\", which had the very successful single \"Hate Me!\". \"Follow the Reaper\" was the first Children of Bodom album to go gold in their home country of Finland.\n\nAfter renewing their contract with Spinefarm Records, thereby gaining the support of the major recording company Universal Music Group, the band recorded their fourth studio album \"Hate Crew Deathroll\", which was released in 2003 to considerable commercial success. \"Hate Crew Deathroll\" was the first Children of Bodom album to 'simplify' their heavy metal in order to have a broader appeal: the guitars used more heavy riffs than their earlier releases, it had emphasis on a clear musical structure and the instrumental virtuosity had been significantly reduced.\n\nRhythm guitarist Alexander Kuoppala left the band during the tours following \"Hate Crew Deathroll\", and was replaced with Roope Latvala of Stone fame.\nOn their fifth studio album, released in 2005 as \"Are You Dead Yet?\", the band continued to explore the traits exhibited on \"Hate Crew Deathroll\". The album got mixed reviews, with some critics praising the new sound, while others slammed it for being too \"awesome for their close minded tastes\".\n\"Blooddrunk\", was released in April 2008. The album \"Relentless Reckless Forever\" was released in March 2011 while they were on The Ugly World Tour 2011.\n\nTheir album \"Halo of Blood\" was released in 2013.\n\nAs of 2009, Children of Bodom have sold over two million records worldwide, including over 200,000 in Finland and over 500,000 in the U.S.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7726117", "categories": ["Children of Bodom", "Heavy metal group discographies"], "title": "Children of Bodom discography"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726118", "text": "Simon Sjödin\n\nSimon Sjödin (born 4 October 1986) is a Swedish competitive swimmer who represented Sweden at both the 2008 Olympic Games and the 2016 Olympic Games. He is of Gambian descent.\n\nSimon Sjödin was born 4 October 1986 in, to parents Kristina and Omar.\n\nSjödin won his first Swedish Swimming Championships title in 2005, when he won the 200 meter butterfly.\n\nIn 2007, he changed swim club from Södertörns SS to SK Neptun.\n\nIn 2008, Simon Sjödin competed in the 2008 Summer Olympics representing Sweden. He finished 26th in the 200 m butterfly and 11th with the Swedish team in the 4 × 100 m medley relay.\n\nIn 2016, he competed in the 2016 Summer Olympics having qualified to swim both 200 m butterfly and 200 m individual medley. Simon reached the semi-final in 200 m butterfly with a time of 1.56.46 beating the Swedish national record in the process. In the semi-final he ended up at 6th place in his heat and ranked 13th overall.\n\n", "id": "7726118", "categories": ["Olympic swimmers of Sweden", "1986 births", "Södertörns SS swimmers", "Living people", "Swimmers at the 2016 Summer Olympics", "European Aquatics Championships medalists in swimming", "Swedish male swimmers", "SK Neptun swimmers", "Swimmers at the 2008 Summer Olympics"], "title": "Simon Sjödin"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726134", "text": "Pitha\n\nPitha (Bengali/Assamese: পিঠা \"pitha\", \"piṭhe\", \"piṭha\" or ; \"fiṭa\") is a type of rice cake from the eastern regions of South Asia, common in Bangladesh, eastern India (states of Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Kerala, Odisha, West Bengal) and Nepal. Pithas are typically made of rice flour, although there are some types of pitha made of wheat flour. Less common types of pitha are made of palm or \"ol\" (a local root vegetable).\n\nPithas are primarily made from a batter of rice flour or wheat flour, which is shaped and optionally filled with sweet or savory ingredients. When filled, the pitha's pouch is called a \"khol\" (literally \"container\") and the fillings are called \"pur\".\n\nFor stuffed vegetable pithas, ingredients such as cauliflower, cabbage, radish, or potato are usually fried, baked, or steamed, and then mashed, cooled, and formed into small balls to stuff into the pithas.\n\nSweet pithas typically contain sugar, jaggery, date juice, or palm syrup, and can be filled with grated coconut, cashews, pistachios, sweetened vegetables, or fruits. Sweet pithas are also often flavored using cardamom or camphor.\n\nDepending on the type of pitha being prepared, pithas can be fried in oil or ghee, slow-roasted over a fire, steamed, or baked and rolled over a hot plate.\n\nPithas are often eaten during breakfast and as a snack with (often with tea), although there are many sweet varieties that are reserved for desserts or holidays.\n\nPithas vary considerably across the regions of the eastern Indian Subcontinent.\n\nIn Odisha, Pithas () are special delicacies in an Odia home. On traditional festivals sweet pithas form a part of the celebrations. Even pithas are also routinely prepared and served in Odia homes in normal days. The pitha may be broadly put in the category cakes. Some Odia pithas include the following:\n\n\nPitha (Devanagari : पिट्ठा ) is also the part of Bihari cuisine particularly in Mithila region of Bihar. Mainly the rice flour pitha is popular in Bihar and two varieties of stuffed(sweet or salty stuffing) or unstuffed pitha are consumed.\n\nWhile some pitha can be made at any time of the year in Bengal (Bangladesh and Indian West Bengal), there are special pitha strongly associated with harvest festivals such as Nabanna ( \"nôbanno\", literally \"new rice\" or \"new food\") and the \"Poush parbon\" or Makar Sankranti, celebrated on January 14 every year. Pitha are usually made with rice flour, milk, coconut and jaggery. It is often served with sweet syrups such as date tree molasses ( \"khejurer guṛ\"). Some of the most common pitha found in Bengal (both in Bangladesh and West Bengal) include the following:\n\"Nokshi pitha\"\n\nIn Assam, pitha is a special class of rice preparation generally made only on special occasions like Bihu. Assamese pithas are often made from \"bora saul\", a special kind of glutinous rice, or \"xaali saul\", or sun-dried rice. Some pithas commonly found in Assam include the following:\n\n\n", "id": "7726134", "categories": ["Bangladeshi cuisine", "Rice dishes", "Assamese cuisine", "Bangladeshi desserts", "Bengali cuisine", "Odia cuisine", "Indian breads", "Indian desserts"], "title": "Pitha"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726139", "text": "Wahwashkesh Lake\n\nWahwashkesh Lake is a lake in Whitestone, Parry Sound District, Ontario, Canada, and is the largest lake in Parry Sound District, with a surface area of 1,721 hectares (4,253 acres) and over 106 km of shoreline. Approximately 30% of the shoreline property is Crown Land. The lake has two distinct basins: (1) the north basin or \"Top Lake\" is the smaller of the two, and (2) the south basin is the \"Big Lake\". Wahwashkesh is part of the Magnetawan River system, and the lake is renowned for an extremely severe spring freshet with the lake levels often rising 3 to 4 meters above the concrete weir at the outlet of the river.\n\nThe lake has a diverse fishery with over 12 species of sport fish, including Northern Pike, Walleye, Smallmouth, and Largemouth Bass. In addition, Wahwashkesh is famous for its Atlantic Coastal Plain Flora. The lake ranks in the top five of all lakes in Ontario for such flora, which the Natural Heritage League and the World Wildlife Fund documented extensively in a 1989 study.\n\nWahwashkesh is from Ojibwa \"wâwâshkeshi\" 'deer'.\n\nEstablished in 1954, the Lake Wah-Wash-Kesh Conservation Association is a not-for-profit association of cottagers and residents on Lake Wahwashkesh, Ontario, Canada. In May 2009, the Association in partnership with the Ministry of Natural Resources installed a new water level monitoring station in Bennett's Bay, to provide direct information on a continuous basis. The Lake Wahwahskesh monitoring station provides real time daily data on the lake's water level, water temperature, air temperature, and rainfall amount.\n\n\n", "id": "7726139", "categories": [], "title": "Wahwashkesh Lake"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726158", "text": "Pakhala\n\nPakhaḷa () is an Odia term for an Indian food consisting of cooked rice washed or little fermented in water. The liquid part is known as toraṇi. It is popular in Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Assam, Chhattisgarh, and Tamil Nadu. \n\nIn Tamil Nadu it is called Pazhaiya Sadam. The Bengali name for this dish is panta bhat, in Chhattisgarh it's called bore bhat, in Jharkhand linguistic communities use names like paani bhat, paakhaal or pakhala, and in Assam it's called poita bhat.\n\nIt is a preparation that is had during summer. People who toil in the sun such as farm hands have it as it replenishes the salt and water lost by the body.\n\nA traditional Odia dish, it is prepared with rice, curd, cucumber, cumin seeds, fried onions and mint leaves. It is popularly served with roasted vegetables—such as potato, brinjal, badi and saga bhaja or fried fish.\n\nThe term \"pakhala\" is derived from Pali word \"pakhaliba\" () as well as Sanskrit word \"Prakshāḷaṇa\" (Sanskrit: प्रक्षाळन) which means \"washed/to wash.\" The word \"pakhaḷa\" was used in the Odia poems of Arjuna Das in his literary work \"Kaḷpalata\" (1520-1530 AD).\nMarch 20 is celebrated as Pakhala Dibasa.\n\nIt is unknown when pakhaḷa was first included in the daily diet of Eastern India, but it was included in the recipe of Lord Jagannath Temple of Puri circa 10. Pakhaḷa is eaten in the eastern part of the Indian subcontinent (including Nepal and some parts of Myanmar).\n\nTo beat the heat, this dish is cooked and cooled in a bowl with full of plain water. Odisha, West Bengal, Assam, and Chhattisgarh also have this dish in their cuisine. To promote this food, 20 March is celebrated as Pakhala Dibas or day.\n\n\nThe dish is typically prepared with rice that is cooked and allowed to cool. Cook normal rice, then cool it. Pour water in a bowl and add rice to it. In a pan, heat a pinch of oil, add mustard seeds, curry leaves, dry red chili and fry well. Add this \"chhunka\" or tadka into the pakhala bowl with sour curd. One can add mint leaves and raw salt to enhance the taste. To add more zing, one may opt for fish fry or sukhua poda (dry fish fried), saga bhaja, badi chura (a regional food item made up of batter of urad or black gram by drying under sunshine as small nuts and then fried to serve) and much more. Cumin seeds are fried, ground into a fine powder and added to curd with coriander leaves and salt.\n\nIt is sometimes served with a fish fry and spinach.\n\nPakhaḷa is slightly fermented rice. The rice is cooked, water is added with little bit of old pakhal (something similar to making curd using milk and old curd). Pakhaḷa tastes best when served after 8 to 12 hours after preparation; in this case, no old pakhal is required to be added to the rice as fermentation usually happens after 6 hours of keeping rice in water.The Pakhala by itself tastes a bit sour, but also paste of green chilli, Green Mango and Ginger is added to give the Pakhala a little bit hot and sweet flavour.\n\nGenerally burnt potato or \"aloo poda\" (boiled is also used) and other fried vegetables or fried fish is served with pakhaḷa. Modern-day variation is to add curd instead of fermenting it.\n\n20 March is declared \"Pakhala Dibasa\" (Universal Pakhala Day) by Odias worldwide.\n\n\n", "id": "7726158", "categories": ["Indian rice dishes"], "title": "Pakhala"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726181", "text": "Zafar Younis\n\nZafar Younis (1977–2007) is a fictional character in the popular BBC espionage drama \"Spooks\", known in the United States as \"MI-5\". The show follows the exploits of MI5's counter-terrorism group, Section D. The character is played by British actor Raza Jaffrey. Zafar (usually called Zaf) is introduced in the last episode of series 3, and he appears throughout series 4 and 5. The character is last seen in the first episode of series 6.\n\nThe BBC's \"Spooks\" website depicts Zaf as a loyal team member, devoted to his job and the protection of the UK. He has a quick wit, sometimes bordering on facetiousness. He enjoys being in the field rather than behind a desk and he excels in undercover work, but he can be \"foolhardy, and his risk assessment [is] sometimes weak.\" He gets along well with section chief Adam Carter, whom he \"hero worship[s].\"\n\nTo quote Raza Jaffrey, \"Zaf is very good at his job. . . . He's hugely ambitious, but knows how much of a sacrifice a career with the intelligence service is. . . . He trusts Adam implicitly and the two have a great rapport. He doesn't always agree with [Adam] but he would lay down his life for him, just as he would for any of the team.\" The BBC Press Pack for series 4 attributes to Zaf a Muslim background but notes that he is not particularly devout. He is, however, said to be sensitive to indications \"that either he or his culture is being patronised or misrepresented,\" and he despises those who use their religion as an excuse for special pleading or facile rhetoric.\n\nIn the episode in which Zaf is introduced, \"The Suffering of Strangers,\" MI5 officers Fiona Carter and Danny Hunter are being held hostage by terrorists. Zaf is an MI6 officer who had worked with Adam Carter (played by Rupert Penry-Jones) before Adam transferred to MI5. Zaf assists in saving Fiona's life, but Danny is killed by the terrorists. With Danny's death, Adam asks Zaf to join Section D.\n\nMidway through series 4, the show gains another new character, the recruit Jo Portman, played by Miranda Raison. There is promise of a growing relationship between Jo and Zaf, but this is never fully developed.\n\nAt the start of series 6, Zaf is kidnapped by a band of mercenaries, and his colleagues are left uncertain of his ultimate fate. It is not until episode 10 that they learn that he was tortured for a paying client, then sold to terrorists in Pakistan, subjected to further torture, and killed.\n\nAfter leaving the series, Raza Jaffrey became a member of the cast of the BBC drama \"Mistresses\", playing Hari Dhillon, husband of one of the four female leads. The actor has commented, \"What’s been really good about the roles of Zafar and Hari is that their story lines were nothing to do with their race.\"\n", "id": "7726181", "categories": ["Spooks characters", "Fictional characters introduced in 2004", "Fictional secret agents and spies", "Fictional British people of Indian descent"], "title": "Zafar Younis"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726184", "text": "John Lewis (referee)\n\nJohn Lewis (30 March 1855 – 13 January 1926) was an English football player, administrator and referee. He was born at Market Drayton, Shropshire, but lived most of his life in Lancashire and was primarily associated with Blackburn Rovers F.C. He was a leading referee from the earliest days of organised football, and when well into his 60s officiated in the Gold medal match of the 1920 Olympic Games football tournament in Antwerp.\n\nOn 21 April 2008 it was announced that his grave at Blackburn Municipal Cemetery had been restored to its former glory, the costs having been met by Blackburn Rovers.\n\nLewis was educated at Shrewsbury School where he began to play football. He was a strict teetotaller worked alongside Old Salopian Arthur Constantine in bringing about the formation of Blackburn Rovers F.C. in 1875, and actually played in the first side fielded by the club. He also contributed to the foundation of the Lancashire FA in 1878, and later became a vice-president of the Football Association and the Football League.\n\nLewis had established himself as a notable referee within the domestic game in England and earned the nickname 'Prince of Referees'. He was three times appointed the referee in the FA Cup Final (1895, 1897 and 1898).\n\nHe refereed the 1898 FA Cup Semi-finals between Southampton and Nottingham Forest; the first match ended in a 1–1 draw. The replay at Crystal Palace was played in a blizzard. After a scoreless first half (in which Joe Turner missed a penalty for Southampton), in the second half the Saints were on top when, with ten minutes left to play, referee Lewis stopped the match for a time and the players left the pitch. No sooner had the game restarted than the weather worsened but Lewis decided that the match should continue. Southampton's goalkeeper George Clawley had his eyes \"choked with snow\" and conceded two goals in the final minutes of the game. Despite Southampton's protests the F.A. decided that the result should stand - this was perhaps not surprising as Lewis was by then an eminent member of the F.A. board.\n\nHe was given charge of the 1908 Olympic final at White City, London between Great Britain and Denmark which passed by without incident.\n\nLewis had already refereed the semi-final between the host nation Belgium and the Netherlands on Thursday 31 August before being appointed for the final on Saturday 2 September 1920. \n\nThat Lewis was appointed match referee may be seen to be surprising in hindsight, given his age, but the Belgian national newspaper \"L'Action Nationale\" wrote an editorial on 4 September 1920 which read: \"Mr. Lewis refereed the game magnificently on Thursday and yet Czechoslovakia are now disqualified\".\n\nAs it transpired, the final was played in a poor spirit: with Belgium leading 2–0 in the 40th minute courtesy of a Robert Coppee penalty in the 6th minute and a Henri Larnoe goal in the 30th minute that was disputed but allowed to stand, Karel Pešek, the Czechoslovakia and Sparta Prague captain, pulled his team from the field in protest after Lewis had ejected Czech left-back Karel Steiner for assaulting Coppee. 15 minutes later, after Lewis had awarded the match and the gold medal to Belgium, the home crowd, led by Belgian soldiers, invaded the field.\n\nThe Czech delegation made the following statement in regard to their protest: \"2. The majority of the decisions of the referee Mr. Lewis were distorted and it was obvious that it gave the public the wrong impression in regard to our game. Also both Belgian goals were the result of incorrect decisions of the referee and we seek a rigorous investigation on that point.\" They had also complained about the inclusion and performance of an English linesman, Charles Wreford-Brown, and the provocative influence of the troops lining the field.\n\nThe Czech protest was dismissed, and their team was disqualified. As a consequence, the tournament for the bronze medal was changed to one for the silver and bronze medals.\n\n\nNotes\n", "id": "7726184", "categories": ["People from Market Drayton", "1926 deaths", "1855 births", "English football referees", "FA Cup Final referees"], "title": "John Lewis (referee)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726211", "text": "Belz Great Synagogue\n\nThe Belz Great Synagogue (, \"Belz Beis HaMedrash HaGadol\") is the largest synagogue in Israel. It was built by the Belz Hasidic community with financial help from its supporters and admirers around the world.\n\nIn the 1980s, Rabbi Yissachar Dov Rokeach, the fifth Belzer Rebbe, spearheaded plans for the huge synagogue to be erected in the Kiryat Belz neighborhood of Jerusalem. The building, designed with four entrances accessible to each of the four streets of the hilltop neighborhood, would be an enlarged replica of the structure that the first Belzer Rebbe, the Sar Shalom, built in the town of Belz in 1843. It would include a grandiose main sanctuary, smaller study halls, wedding and bar mitzvah halls, libraries, and other communal facilities.\n\nFunds for the ambitious, multimillion-dollar project were raised among Belzer Hasidim and were supplemented by various fundraising projects throughout the 1980s and 1990s.\nLike the original synagogue, which took 15 years to complete, the new Belz synagogue that now dominates the northern Jerusalem skyline also took 15 years to construct. It was dedicated in 2000.\n\nIts main sanctuary seats 10,000 worshippers. The ornate wooden ark, an item for the Guinness Book of Records, is 12 meters high and weighs 18 tons. It has the capacity to hold 70 Torah scrolls. Nine chandeliers, each standing at high and wide, each contain over 200,000 pieces of Czech crystal.\n\nIn stark contrast to the majestic synagogue, the simple wooden chair and shtender used by Rabbi Aharon Rokeach when he came to Israel in 1944 stand in a glass case next to the ark.\n\nThe main sanctuary is used only on Shabbat and Jewish holidays, while weekday services take place in the underlying smaller rooms of the complex. Under the main sanctuary are multiple floors. The floor directly under the main sanctuary hosts a large number of small synagogue rooms known as \"shtieblach\", where services for , and Ma'ariv are held up to every 10 minutes. In an adjacent wing is also a large hall used for \"tishen\". Below the \"shtieblach\" are multiple floors with dormitory-style sleeping quarters for Belzer Hasidim from outside of Israel, who come to be with the Rebbe for Jewish holidays such as Rosh HaShana, Yom Kippur and Sukkot. There are also large rooms for other functions, such as \"Seudah Shlishit\" on Shabbat afternoons, weddings and bar mitzvah celebrations.\n\nA separate two-story house for the Belzer Rebbe stands adjacent to the synagogue. Here the Rebbe maintains his office and receives guests, as well as resides with his family. The second-floor balcony of the house faces the large, outdoor courtyard of the synagogue, where Hasidim gather for outdoor addresses by the Rebbe and for large celebrations under a giant tent, such as the bar mitzvah banquets for the Rebbe's grandsons in 2008 and 2010.\n\nThe \"Belz Great Synagogue\" is in Kiryat Belz neighborhood, 7 Binat Yisas'har St 5, Jerusalem.\n\n", "id": "7726211", "categories": ["Orthodox synagogues in Israel", "Belz (Hasidic dynasty)", "Synagogues completed in 2000", "Ashkenazi Jewish culture in Israel", "Hasidic synagogues", "Synagogues in Jerusalem"], "title": "Belz Great Synagogue"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726212", "text": "Hapki yusul\n\nHapkiyusul () is a Korean martial art derived from Japanese Daitō-ryū Aiki-jūjutsu as it was brought to Korea by Choi Yong Sul.\n\nChoi Yong Sul () is often seen as the source of Korean hapkido. After Choi returned to Korea in 1946 he started teaching a martial art he had learned in Japan, Daito Ryu Aikijujitsu. His initial students and their students, etc., adapted these techniques to their own needs and added techniques from other Korean and non-Korean styles, forming Hapkido, Kuksool Won, Hwarangdo, Tukgongmoosul, Hanmudo, Hanpul, etc..\n\nKim Yun Sang aka Kim Yoon-Sang (김윤상) began using the term \"Hapkiyusul\" in 1987, a year after Choi Yong Sul died, in order to differentiate what he had learned from Choi Yong-Sul and was teaching from mainstream Hapkido. Kim was authorized by Choi Yong Sul to use Choi's own name (\"Yong Sul\") as the name of his kwan (\"Yong Sul Kwan\" ()). Hapkiyusul members practice the original techniques and learning/teaching process as taught to Kim Yun Sang by Choi. Choi's students were told that all of these techniques (including the kicks and hand strikes taught by Choi) were Daito Ryu Aikijujitsu. The use of \"hapki\" (better known as \"aiki\" in Japanese traditions) is greatly emphasized.\n\nOutside of Korea there are a few dedicated people who actively train in Hapkiyusul. At the moment there at least 30 non-Koreans who hold a black belt in Hapkiyusul. Schools or practice groups exist in the US (Texas), Australia, Brazil, England, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands.\n\nKim Yun Sang holds seminars in Australia at least every other year and visited several European countries in February 2008, teaching seminars in Germany, England and Italy.\n\n\n", "id": "7726212", "categories": ["Hapkido"], "title": "Hapki yusul"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726225", "text": "Battle of Jarnac\n\nThe Battle of Jarnac on 13 March 1569 was an encounter during the French Wars of Religion between the Catholic forces of Marshal Gaspard de Saulx, sieur de Tavannes, and the Huguenots, near the nadir of their fortunes, financed by Reinhold von Krockow (who was wounded in the battle) and led by Louis I de Bourbon, prince de Condé, who was killed after his surrender and his body paraded on an ass in Jarnac, to Catholic jeers. The forces met outside Jarnac between the right bank of the Charente River and the high road between Angoulême and Cognac.\n\nMarshal Gaspard de Tavannes, superior in cavalry, crossed the Charente by the bridge at Châteauneuf and was successful in defeating the Huguenots due to his execution of surprise attacks, coming unexpectedly from the south. The Huguenots made a last stand at Triac and were ultimately defeated, with both their leaders captured in the fray and murdered in the aftermath. Under the leadership of Gaspard de Coligny, however, a significant portion of the Huguenot army managed to escape.\n\nMinor participants on the Huguenot side were the English volunteer Walter Raleigh and Louis of Nassau.\n\nOn 25 June, the two armies met again at the Battle of La Roche-l'Abeille, resulting in a Protestant victory. The Battle of Moncontour in October of the same year would provide the Catholics with a more definitive victory.\n\nA tapestry of the battle and the assassination of Louis I of Bourbon is in the collection of the Musée National de la Renaissance in Ecouen.\n", "id": "7726225", "categories": ["Conflicts in 1569", "Battles involving France", "1569 in France", "History of Poitou-Charentes", "Battles of the French Wars of Religion", "Battles in Nouvelle-Aquitaine"], "title": "Battle of Jarnac"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726235", "text": "Ylläs\n\nYlläs, or Yllästunturi in Finnish, is a high fell in the municipality of Kolari in Lapland Province of Finland. There are two villages near Ylläs: Äkäslompolo on the north side and Ylläsjärvi in the south. They are connected by an 11 km road, around the side of the fell. Both villages derive much of their income from tourism.\n\nYlläs is a popular cross country and downhill skiing centre. The area's marketing slogan is \"Ylläs on ykkönen!\" (Finnish for \"Ylläs is number one!\"). \nYlläs is the second largest ski resort in Lapland, after Levi.\nMany companies in the vicinity of Ylläs have taken the fell's name as part of their own, such as the Ylläksen Nousu sports club in Äkäslompolo.\n\nYlläs is the highest fell in Finland where you can find skiing lifts.\n\nIn the Ylläs area there are:\n\nOther fells near Ylläs are Kukastunturi, Lainiotunturi, Kuertunturi, Kesänki, Pyhätunturi and Aakenustunturi.\n\nThe nearest railway station is at Kolari and the nearest airport is Kittilä Airport.\n\nYlläs was the host of the thirteenth 1995 Winter Deaflympics.\n\nYlläs is also a popular tourist destination during the summer months with activities such as hiking, biking, fishing and canoeing all available for visitors to enjoy. The gondola is open during the summer season making it easy to reach the top of the fell and enjoy the panoramic views.\n\n", "id": "7726235", "categories": ["Tourist attractions in Lapland (Finland)", "Ski areas and resorts in Finland", "Landforms of Lapland (Finland)", "Kolari", "Mountains of Finland"], "title": "Ylläs"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726236", "text": "AMC straight-4 engine\n\nThe American Motors Corporation straight-4 engine was used by a number of AMC, Jeep, and Dodge vehicles from 1984 to 2002.\n\nAmerican Motors devoted three years to the development of a new four-cylinder engine. The brand new engine was designed to use AMC's existing spacing between the cylinder bores so that the tooling remained the same. The location of other major components, such as the distributor, oil filter, and starter, were also kept the same so as to use the machine tools for the AMC straight-6 engine.\n\nAccording to Jeep's chief engineer, Roy Lunn, \"unlike most engines available today [it] was not designed for passenger cars and then adapted for trucks. We specifically developed it with our Jeep vehicles and Eagle in mind. That's the reason that performance and durability were of such prime consideration from the very beginning.\" Although some of components were interchangeable between the AMC six-cylinder and the new engine, the four-cylinder was not a cut down version of the big six. Noted Roy Lunn, \"There are some common parts, but the 4-cylinder includes many unique items such as its own electronics systems. It also has a shorter stroke and larger bore. The valves are larger and the pistons are new.\" Roy Lunn recalled: \"We wanted as much displacement - for power and torque - as possible within the confines of bore centers of the tooling. The only parameter we could influence substantially was stroke. So we picked the largest bore and stroke in order to get 2.5 Liters.\"\n\nThe AMC engine has a bore x stroke of . The head features a combustion chamber and port design that was later used on the 4.0 L — the 2.5 L I-4 head lost two cylinders in its center, opposed to the six-cylinder engines. The 2.5 engine also features five main bearings and eight overhead valves.\n\nInstead of the standard AMC bell housing bolt pattern, AMC/Jeep engineers adopted the General Motors small V6 and four-cylinder bolt pattern (commonly used with GM's transverse-mounted powerplants) for their new engine, because the new AMC 2.5 replaced the four-cylinder engines that had been purchased from GM; and because AMC continued to buy the 2.8 L V6 from GM until the 4.0 L I6 was introduced in 1987. The four-cylinder and V6 shared the same drivetrain components, whereas stronger transmissions were needed for the new 4.0 L. The 2.5L also shared an 18mm threaded oil filter used with the GM 2.8L (ACDelco PF47 or equivalent) to 1986; when the 4.0L was phased into production with the XJ the oil filter was changed over to a 20mm thread size shared with Renaults until 1991. \n\nThe AMC I4 first appeared in 1984 model year with the new XJ Cherokee. In 1986 the head went under a minor revision, the head bolts were increased from 7/16 to 1/2 inch. From 1997 to 2002 it was marketed as the \"Power-Tech I4\". It was produced through 2002 for the Jeep Wrangler, as well as for the Dodge Dakota pickup that also featured the AMC/Jeep designed four-cylinder as its standard engine from 1996 through 2002.\n\nThis lightweight engine is similar to its \"big brother\" 4.0 L, and although not powerful, it is durable with no reliability issues.\n\nOutput the final year was at 5400 rpm and of torque at 3250 rpm using sequential multiple-port fuel injection (MPFI). For comparison, the 258 I6 provided at 3200 rpm and of torque at 2000 rpm in its final year with the computer-controlled carburetor.\n\nFor several years, the engine was detuned for the Wrangler; from at least 1992-1995, it produced and of torque with 9.2:1 compression ratio in the Cherokee and Comanche.\n\nNote that the TBI system was made by Renix and used from mid-1986-August 1990.\n\nThe AMC engine was used in the following vehicles:\n\n", "id": "7726236", "categories": ["AMC engines", "Chrysler engines"], "title": "AMC straight-4 engine"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726252", "text": "Mike Standly\n\nMichael Dean Standly (born May 19, 1964) is an American professional golfer who has played on the PGA Tour and the Nationwide Tour.\n\nStandly was born in Abilene, Texas. He attended the University of Houston and was a member of the golf team; he was an All-American in 1986, his senior year. He turned pro later that year.\n\nStandly played the Ben Hogan Tour, now Nationwide Tour, in 1990. He earned his PGA Tour card for 1991 by finishing T-16 at qualifying school. He played on the PGA Tour from 1991 to 1999. From 2000 to 2008, he split his gradually decreasing playing time between the PGA Tour and Nationwide Tour.\n\nStandly has 35 top-25 finishes in his PGA Tour career including 12 top-10 finishes. He is able to boast three top-5 finishes in one particular tournament: the Freeport-McMoRan Golf Classic. He had a T-2 there in 1992, a win in 1993, and a T-5 in 1995. Standly finished second at the 1997 Deposit Guaranty Golf Classic when Billy Ray Brown birdied the final hole to win by one stroke. His best finish in a major championship is T-16 at the 1993 U.S. Open.\n\nStandly's best finish on the Nationwide Tour is T-3 at the 2003 Alberta Calgary Classic.\n\nStandly lives in Houston, Texas.\n\n\"Note: Standly never played in The Open Championship.\"<br>\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n", "id": "7726252", "categories": ["PGA Tour golfers", "1964 births", "Golfers from Texas", "Houston Cougars men's golfers", "Sportspeople from Abilene, Texas", "Sportspeople from Houston", "American male golfers"], "title": "Mike Standly"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726257", "text": "Hesco bastion\n\nThe HESCO MIL is a modern gabion primarily used for flood control and military fortifications. It is made of a collapsible wire mesh container and heavy duty fabric liner, and used as a temporary to semi-permanent levee or blast wall against explosions or small-arms. It has seen considerable use in Iraq and Afghanistan. It was developed in the late 1980s by a British company of the same name.\n\nOriginally designed for use on beaches and marshes for erosion and flood control, the HESCO MIL quickly became a popular security device in the 1990s. HESCO barriers continue to be used for their original purpose. They were used in 2005 to reinforce levees around New Orleans in the few days between Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita. During the June 2008 Midwest floods of HESCO barrier wall were shipped to Iowa. In late March, 2009, of HESCO barrier were delivered to Fargo, North Dakota to protect against floods. In late September, 2016, 10 miles of HESCO barriers were used in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, for the fall flood of 2016.\n\nSpecifically, the brand name for the barrier is \"Concertainer\" (a portmanteau of \"concertina\" and \"container\"), with HESCO Bastion being the company that produces it.\n\nThe HESCO MIL was originally developed by Jimi Heselden, a British entrepreneur and ex-coal miner, who founded HESCO Bastion Ltd. in 1989 to manufacture his invention.\n\nAssembling the HESCO MIL units entails unfolding it and filling it with sand, soil or gravel, usually using a front end loader. The placement of the barrier is generally very similar to the placement of a sandbag barrier or earth berm except that room must generally be allowed for the equipment used to fill the barrier. The main advantage of HESCO barriers, strongly contributing to their popularity with troops and flood fighters, is the quick and easy setup. Previously, people had to fill sandbags, a slow undertaking, with one worker filling about 20 sandbags per hour. Workers using HESCO barriers and a front end loader can do ten times the work of those using sandbags.\n\nThe HESCO barriers come in a variety of sizes. Most of the barriers can also be stacked, and they are shipped collapsed in compact sets. Example dimensions of typical configurations are to .\n\nA new system of HESCO MIL Concertainer developed specially for military use is deployed from a container, which is dragged along the line of ground where the barrier is to be formed, unfolding up to several hundred metres of barrier ready for filling within minutes.\n\n\n", "id": "7726257", "categories": ["British inventions", "Flood barriers", "Fortification (architectural elements)"], "title": "Hesco bastion"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726258", "text": "North Forsyth High School\n\nNorth Forsyth High School may refer one of the following public schools:\n", "id": "7726258", "categories": [], "title": "North Forsyth High School"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726281", "text": "Therese Svendsen\n\nTherese Svendsen (born Malmö, March 13, 1989) is a Swedish swimmer representing SK Ran.\n\nShe is a former holder of the Swedish record in short-course 200 m backstroke, and swam for Sweden at the 2007 World Championships (backstroke events).\n\nAs of 2008, she is attending/swimming for the USA's Southern Methodist University.\n\nShe competed in the 2012 Summer Olympics, where she finished 35th in the 100 metre brackstroke event.\n", "id": "7726281", "categories": ["Medalists at the FINA World Swimming Championships (25 m)", "Olympic swimmers of Sweden", "Swedish female swimmers", "Swimmers at the 2012 Summer Olympics", "1989 births", "Living people", "European Aquatics Championships medalists in swimming"], "title": "Therese Svendsen"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726282", "text": "Petter Stymne\n\nPetter Stymne (born 9 May 1983 in Ryd, Sweden) is a Swedish swimmer from Skövde, representing SK Neptun from Stockholm. He competed for his native country at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece.\n\nStymne became gold medalist and world record holder in the 4×50 meters freestyle together with Stefan Nystrand, Marcus Piehl and Jonas Tilly with the time of 1:24.89 on 10 December 2006 at the European Short Course Swimming Championships in Helsinki, Finland.\n\n\n", "id": "7726282", "categories": ["Medalists at the FINA World Swimming Championships (25 m)", "Olympic swimmers of Sweden", "Living people", "Male freestyle swimmers", "European Aquatics Championships medalists in swimming", "Skövde SS swimmers", "SK Neptun swimmers", "1983 births", "Swedish male swimmers", "Swimmers at the 2008 Summer Olympics"], "title": "Petter Stymne"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726288", "text": "Elise Cavanna\n\nElise Cavanna (January 30, 1902 – May 12, 1963) was an American film actress, stage comedian, dancer, and fine artist. She went by the following names: Elise Seeds, Alyse Seeds, Elise Armitage, Elise Cavanna, and Elise Welton.\n\nBorn Elise Seeds in Germantown, Pennsylvania, to Sally D. Burk and Thomas M. Seeds. She attended the Pennsylvania Academy and studied dancing with Isadora Duncan in Berlin, Germany. Cavanna was 6 feet tall and very svelte. She gave dance recitals in New York City until she began to dislike it. Then she became a dancer in the Ziegfeld Follies.\n\nCavanna was a comedian with Joe Weber and Lew Fields before she entered motion pictures in 1926. Her first film was \"Love 'Em and Leave 'Em\" (1926) with Louise Brooks and Evelyn Brent. Next she performed as an \"early morning customer\" with Brooks and W.C. Fields in \"It's the Old Army Game\" (1926). She worked with Fields in four other of his films, most notably \"The Dentist\", where her scenes as a writhing victim of the brutal dentist (Fields) were deemed so risque that they were edited out for television broadcast decades later. Her on-screen interplay with Fields was compared by film historian William K. Everson to that between Groucho Marx and Margaret Dumont. Cavanna remained in films until the late 1930s, compiling more than twenty screen credits.\n\nIn 1932, while living in Los Angeles, she met and married Merle Armitage (1893–1975), a writer, book designer, musician, and WPA administrator. She became more interested in visual art and art social circles after her marriage.\n\nIn September 1933, Cavanna presented six abstract lithographs at a showing at Stendhals in Los Angeles, California. A newspaper review commented on the \"cool precision of her lines and spots of tone.\" The art was best appreciated through the \"mind's eye\" rather than the eye itself. Cavanna's art was shown in October 1949 as part of the contemporary section in the California Centennials Exhibition of Art at the Los Angeles County Museum, Exposition Park. Oils, water colors, and prints from 20th-century artists were presented along with a historical section, which assembled early art. It displayed life in California from 1800 through 1870.\n\nIn 1937, Cavanna completed the 16′ x 6′ oil on canvas painting \"Air Mail\" for the Oceanside, California post office. The painting depicts a realistic but stylized airplane flying over a landscape that looks similar to California.\n\nThe Los Angeles Art Association exhibited Cavanna's work in a 1954 showing at 2425 Wilshire Boulevard. The four artists whose work was shown were known collectively as \"Functionists West\". They were Stephen Longstreet, Helen Lundeberg, Cavanna, and Lorser Feitelson. By then the former actress signed her name simply, \"Elise\". Cavanna and Feitelson presented only nonobjective paintings, though each worked in representational modes. Both artists were similar in \"using only flat-colored, near geometrical forms\", which either opposed or complemented each other. Cavanna was one of the first nonobjective painters in southern California. Each one of her pictures was brightly colored, filled with energy, and could be viewed as a separate portion of a frieze. Feitelson and Lundeberg wrote a manifesto in 1934, describing their art as post-surrealism. Their desire was to use art to communicate the connection between the conceptual and the perceptual.\n\nIn 1961, Cavanna co-authored a book with her husband, James Welton, entitled \"Gourmet Cookery for a Low Fat Diet\". The volume contained 200 recipes for making fatless meals.\n\nElise Cavanna Welton died in Hollywood, California, of cancer on May 12, 1963. She was 61 years old. She is buried in Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale, California.\n\n", "id": "7726288", "categories": ["20th-century American women artists", "Deaths from cancer in California", "American stage actresses", "Painters from Pennsylvania", "American female dancers", "Actresses from Pennsylvania", "Burials at Forest Lawn Memorial Park (Glendale)", "1963 deaths", "Dancers from Pennsylvania", "American silent film actresses", "20th-century American actresses", "1902 births", "American film actresses", "American women painters"], "title": "Elise Cavanna"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726297", "text": "Neal Doughty\n\nNeal Allan Doughty (born July 29, 1946, Evansville, Indiana) is an American keyboardist, best known as a founding member of the rock band REO Speedwagon and the only member to have played on every album. He formed the band in the fall of 1967, with original drummer Alan Gratzer.\n\nAlthough he has never been one of REO Speedwagon's primary songwriters, Doughty has written or co-written several of the band's songs. Songs for which he is the sole composer include \"Sky Blues\" from 1974, \"One Lonely Night\" from 1984 and \"Variety Tonight\" from 1987. The latter two songs charted as \"Billboard\" singles, with \"One Lonely Night\" cracking the top 20.\n\nHis most notable playing includes the Hammond Organ solo on \"Roll With The Changes\" and the honky-tonk piano work on \"157 Riverside Avenue\". He notes the piano track to \"Can't Fight This Feeling\" was his most difficult studio performance, but is now his favorite part of live concerts.\n\nHe was an early adopter of the Moog Synthesizer, which can be heard on the opening swoop of \"Ridin' The Storm Out.\" Currently, he is using synths made by Korg and Yamaha and tours with a Hammond B3 Organ routed through Leslie speaker cabinets.\n\n\n", "id": "7726297", "categories": ["Songwriters from Indiana", "Musicians from Evansville, Indiana", "1946 births", "REO Speedwagon members", "American organists", "Musicians from Indiana", "Living people", "American rock pianists", "American rock keyboardists", "21st-century American keyboardists", "21st-century American pianists"], "title": "Neal Doughty"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726303", "text": "Khan Research Laboratories F.C.\n\nKhan Research Laboratories Football Club, sometimes abbreviated to KRL F.C., or KRL (locally), is a Pakistani professional association football club based in Rawalpindi. The club is affiliated with Khan Research Laboratories and the team play their home games at KRL Stadium. The club has won five league titles and six National Football Challenge Cup. They are the most successful club in the country with eleven trophies. They are the only Pakistani club to reach a continental club finals, when they reached the 2013 AFC President's Cup finals, losing 1–0 to Balkan FK.\n\nKhan Research Laboratories entered the National Championship in the 1998 season, where they lost 2–0 to Allied Bank in the quarter-finals. The next year they reached the semi-finals of the National Championship, after finishing top of their group winning both their group matches 4–1 and 6–3 against Pakistan Railways and Balochistan Red respectively. They defeated Karachi Metropolitan 4–0 and Pakistan Railways 3–2 on penalties after drawing the game 2–2 in normal time. They lost 1–0 to Pakistan Navy in the semi-finals. In the 2000 season, Khan Research Laboratories reached the Round of 16, after topping the group again defeating Punjab Greens and WAPDA 8–1 and 3–0 respectively, in the Round of 16 they lost 1–0 that season's runners-up Karachi Port Trust. The next season, they topped the group again, when they defeated Pakistan Police and Sindh Greens 1–0 and 5–1 respectively, Sajjad of Khan Research Laboratories scored the hat-trick in the latter match. In the Round of 16, they trashed University Grants Commission 6–0, with Allah Nawaz scoring four goals. In quarter-finals they defeated Allied Bank 3–2 and defeated their group team Pakistan Police 2–1 in the semi-finals. Khan Research Laboratories drew 1–1 to WAPDA in the finals, only to lose 4–3 on penalties. In the 2002 season, Khan Research Laboratories, top the group again for the fourth consecutive season, defeating University Grants Commission 5–1 and drawing 1–1 with Sindh Red. In Round of 16, they defeated Balochistan Green 1–0. Khan Research Laboratories defeated Federally Administered Tribal Areas 2–1 in the quarter-finals and lost to Pakistan Army in the 1–0 in the semi-finals.\n\nKhan Research Laboratories became a dominant side since the inception of re-branded Pakistan Premier League, finishing third in the 2004–05, scoring 98 goals in 30 matches, winning 23 and drawing and losing four and three matches respectively. They finished third in further four season, 2005–06, 2006–07, 2007–08 and 2008–09 seasons, before winning their first ever league and national title in the 2009–10 season, when they won the league on goal difference after being tied on 60 points. Khan Research Laboratories had a goal difference +32 against +22 of Pakistan Army. Khan Research Laboratories completed the double, when they won the 2009 National Football Challenge Cup defeating Pakistan Airlines 1–0 in the finals. In the 2010–11, they finished second to league winners WAPDA. Although they successfully defended the National Football Challenge Cup, defeating Pakistan Navy 4–0 in the finals. Khan Research Laboratories won three league titles consecutively, winning in 2011–12, 2012–13 and 2013–14. In 2011–12 and 2012–13 season, Khan Research Laboratories completed consecutive double when they the league and Challenge Cup.In latter season, they won the league after their star forward Kaleemullah Khan, scpred 35 goals, including 7 hat-tricks. In the 2014–15 season, they finished sixth after losing their star players, Kaleemullah Khan and Muhammad Adil to Kyrgyz club FC Dordoi Bishkek. They won further two Challenge Cups in 2015 and 2016, becoming the most successful club in National Football Challenge Cup, winning the tournament a total of six times. Khan Research Laboratories won their fifth 2018–19 Premier League title won their fifth title after defeating Sui Southern Gas 4–0 on the final match day, making them the most successful club since the inception of Pakistan Pakistan Premier League.\n\nKhan Research Laboratories' first appearance in the Asian competition came in 2010 AFC President's Cup, when they finished second to Vakhsh Qurghonteppa in the group stage. In 2012 AFC President's Cup, they finished second in the group stage after drawing both their games 0–0 against Erchim and Taiwan Power Company, thus qualifying for the final stage where they finished bottom of the group. \nTheir win in the 2012 season qualified them for a spot in the 2013 AFC President's Cup. In the group stage, held in May 2013, they were drawn against Kyrgyzstan-based Dordoi Bishkek, Philippines-based Global and Bhutan-based Yeedzin. KRL drew 1–1 with Dordoi, beat Global 2–0 and also went past Yeedzin 8–0. They finished second in the group behind Dordoi based on goal difference as both clubs had 7 points from their 3 encounters (2 wins, 1 draw). Through this result, the club qualified for the final group stage of the Cup which was played in September 2013. In the final group stage, they were drawn against the Palestinian side Hilal Al-Quds and their rivals from the first group stage, Kyrgyzstani side Dordoi Bishkek. They won both of their games and progressed to the final, where they lost 1–0 to Turkmen side Balkan. In the 2014 AFC President's Cup they finished bottom of the group in the first stage.\n\nThe club colors, reflected in their crest and kit are dark green and white.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7726303", "categories": ["Football clubs in Pakistan"], "title": "Khan Research Laboratories F.C."}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726306", "text": "Bowstock\n\nBowstock may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7726306", "categories": [], "title": "Bowstock"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726308", "text": "Sara Thydén\n\nSara Thydén (born 26 June 1989) is a Swedish swimmer from Kalmar, representing Kalmar SS. Swedish Junior Record holder in 200 m individual medley. She finished 5th in 400 m IM at the 2005 European Junior Championships.\n\n", "id": "7726308", "categories": ["1989 births", "Living people", "People from Kalmar", "Swedish female swimmers"], "title": "Sara Thydén"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726312", "text": "Barrie McDermott\n\nBarrie \"Baz\" McDermott (born 22 July 1972) is a former professional rugby league footballer who played in the 1990s and 2000s. A Great Britain international representative , he played his club football at Oldham, Wigan Warriors, Leeds Rhinos (with whom he won both a Super League Championship and Challenge Cup Final), Bramley and the Widnes Vikings.\n\nMcDermott later became the Head of Youth Development with his former club, Leeds Rhinos, and appears as a pundit on Sky Sports. In 2006 Barrie McDermott was included in the Southstander.com Hall of Fame.\n\nMcDermott was born in Oldham, Lancashire, England.\n\nA native of Oldham, McDermott started out with his hometown club Oldham before transferring to Wigan where he won a championship and was first picked to play for Great Britain. He had originally wished to join the army but was unable to do so after an accident with an air rifle that caused him to lose an eye. His early career wasn't short of controversy and he has been described as notorious, mostly due to his aggressive style of play. During the 1994 Kangaroo tour of Great Britain and France McDermott played in all three Ashes Tests against Australia, Great Britain losing the series.\n\nBarrie McDermott played as a substitute in Wigan's 1994–95 Regal Trophy victory, \na 40-10 win over Warrington, and in the 1995–96 Final, a 25-16 defeat of St. Helens.\n\nMcDermott joined Leeds in 1996. He missed the Rhinos' 1998 Super League Grand Final defeat against Wigan. He played in Leeds' first Challenge Cup Final win for 21 years against the in 1999. He scored a try at a crucial time in Leeds' 52–16 win, which was a record scoreline. In this game Leroy Rivett set a Challenge Cup record by scoring 4 tries.\n\nMcDermott was a Great Britain international, winning 17 caps. He also earned a single cap for England.\n\nMcDermott went on to represent Ireland at the 2000 Rugby League World Cup, and went on to earn 15 caps over the years. McDermott has also represented Lancashire in the Origin Series. His autobiography, \"Made for Rugby\" was published in 2004. McDermott did manage to become only the 22nd Leeds player to win the league championship and the challenge cup in 2004 when he played for the Leeds Rhinos from the interchange bench in their 2004 Super League Grand Final victory against the Bradford Bulls.\n\nAt the start of Barrie's last season with Leeds, he won the 2005 World Club Challenge. The Rhinos won the World Club Challenge against the then National Rugby League champions the Canterbury Bulldogs. They won the trophy in front of a record crowd for a World Club Challenge held in Britain. There was a 37,028 strong crowd at Elland Road.\n\nThe Rhinos looked like they were going to go onto more success in 2005 as they reached the Challenge Cup Final for the 4th time in 6 years. They were leading 24–19 with a couple of minutes to go when disaster struck as they conceded a Paul Cooke try which Danny Brough converted to give the men from the east coast the trophy, winning by a point 25–24, The Rhinos' season went from bad to worse as they slipped up in the league allowing St. Helens to finish top of the table. The Rhinos finished 2nd and so played Saint Helens at Knowsley Road for the right to go to old trafford and play in the Grand Final. The Rhinos won and so reached their second consecutive Grand Final. They had to wait and see who they would play in the Grand Final. Saints played Bradford in the Grand Final Eliminator to see who would play the Rhinos at Old Trafford. The Bulls won so it was a repeat of the 2004 Grand Final – however it wasn't to be a fairytale for the Rhinos and Barrie as the Bulls won the match 15–6.\n\nBarrie played in 2 Grand Finals, 3 Challenge Cup Finals and a World Club Challenge. He won 1 Grand Final winners ring, a Challenge Cup winners medal and a World Club Challenge winners medal. Barrie played 283 games for Leeds scoring 40 tries including 1 hat-trick. Barrie McDermott's Testimonial match at Leeds took place in 2005. He played for the Leeds Rhinos from the interchange bench in their 2005 Super League Grand Final loss against Bradford Bulls. Although he announced his retirement from the game at the end of the 2005 season, McDermott played another year with Widnes in NL1. After a season playing with his good friend Terry O'Connor he finally retired in 2006.\n\nFollowing retirement, Barrie initially worked in a community role at Leeds Rhinos before joining the Leeds coaching setup where he is currently the Head of Youth Development. He regularly works for Sky Sports, both as a pundit at live games and as an off-field character where he regularly appears in light-hearted features with long-time friend Terry O'Connor. He is also involved in Leeds' corporate entertainment division on match days.\n\nEven after his playing career was over, McDermott remained involved with the Challenge Cup, one of the most prestigious knock-out tournaments in the world of rugby league. Leeds Metropolitan University, who were the main sponsors of the event in 2009, announced him as their official \"Carnegie Ambassador\" for the 2009 Challenge Cup.\n\n", "id": "7726312", "categories": ["England national rugby league team players", "Oldham R.L.F.C. players", "1972 births", "Bramley RLFC players", "English people of Irish descent", "English rugby league players", "Leeds Rhinos players", "Rugby league props", "People from Oldham", "Living people", "Widnes Vikings players", "Wigan Warriors players", "Ireland national rugby league team players", "Lancashire rugby league team players", "Great Britain national rugby league team players"], "title": "Barrie McDermott"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726320", "text": "Mount Makulu Research Station\n\nThe Mount Makulu Research Station is an agricultural research station situated near Chilanga, c. 15 km south of Lusaka, Zambia.\n\nIt was started in the 1950s by the British Government after the Second World War, while Zambia was a British colony.\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s Mount Makulu was home to an expatriate community of notably English and Dutch residents and to the local African population. Named after a local hill, called Mount Makulu, it was involved in various research activities related to, for example, grasses and silage. It was a thriving if small community with a local tennis club built by the residents. The nearest town is Chilanga, which has local schools and whose main industry is the manufacture of cement.\n\nAfter Zambia gained its independence from Britain under President Kenneth Kaunda in 1964, Mount Makulu continued as an agricultural research station as a part of the Department of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries of Zambia.\n\nThe Mount Makulu Research Station is also the headquarters of the Zambia Agriculture Research Institute (ZARI).\n\n", "id": "7726320", "categories": ["Agricultural organisations based in Zambia", "Research stations"], "title": "Mount Makulu Research Station"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726323", "text": "Trevor N. Dupuy\n\nTrevor Nevitt Dupuy (May 3, 1916 – June 5, 1995) was a colonel in the United States Army and a noted military historian.\n\nBorn in Staten Island, New York, the son of accomplished illustrator and artist, Laura Nevitt Dupuy, and noted military historian, R. Ernest Dupuy, Trevor Dupuy followed in his father's footsteps.\n\nTrevor Dupuy attended West Point, graduating in the class of 1938. During World War II he commanded a U.S. Army artillery battalion, a Chinese artillery group, and an artillery detachment from the British 36th Infantry Division. He was always proud of the fact that he had more combat time in Burma than any other American, and received decorations for service or valour from the U.S., British, and Chinese governments. After the war Dupuy served in the United States Department of Defense Operations Division from 1945 to 1947, and as military assistant to the Under Secretary of the Army from 1947 to 1948. He was a member of the original Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE) staff in Paris under Generals Dwight D. Eisenhower and Matthew Ridgway from 1950 to 1952.\n\nIt is as a military historian and a theorist that Trevor Dupuy would make a lasting mark on the world. He is perhaps best known for his massive book \"The Encyclopedia Of Military History\" (co-written, like many of his books, with his father R. Ernest Dupuy). Starting from the beginning of history and going up the present day the book tries to cover all the major (and minor) military conflicts in world history. Usually each entry (arranged chronologically and by region) gives little more than the names of the commanders and (often) very rough estimates for the size of the forces involved in the campaigns. Dupuy was not afraid of expressing an opinion and he classified some of his subjects as Great Captains (such as Alexander the Great, Hannibal, Julius Caesar, Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden, Frederick II of Prussia and Napoleon). The book focuses mainly on the American and Western European experiences but offers some coverage of other regions of the world. The Encyclopedia Of Military History has been revised (and updated) several times, most recently in 1993. It can be found in the reference section of most American libraries.\n\nAfter Dupuy left active service in the Army in 1952, Harvard University appointed him as a Professor of Military Science and Tactics, where he helped found the Harvard Defense Studies Program (directed from 1958 to 1971 by Henry Kissinger). He left Harvard in 1956 to become director of the program in military studies at The Ohio State University. After retiring from active military duty in 1958, he served as a visiting professor in the International Relations Program at Rangoon University (now Yangon University) in Burma. From 1960 to 1962 Dupuy worked for the Institute for Defense Analyses, a government-funded think tank.\n\nIn 1962 he formed the first of his research companies dedicated to the study and analysis of armed conflict, the Historical Evaluation and Research Organization (HERO), and served as President and Executive Director until 1983. From 1967 to 1983 he was also President of T. N. Dupuy Associates Inc. (TNDA), which became the parent organization for HERO. In 1983, TNDA sold its assets (including HERO) to a new corporation he formed called Data Memory Systems, Inc. (DMSI). Trevor was the president and largest stockholder in DMSI. In 1990, Dupuy resigned from DMSI, sold his stock and reactivated TNDA. In 1992 TNDA was closed out, and he established the non-profit The Dupuy Institute (TDI).\n\nDupuy's main contribution to military operation analysis is the assessment method \"Quantified Judgment Method\" or \"QJM\", where the outcome of a battle is predicted using a fairly complicated multiplicative-additive formula in which various factors relating to the strength and firepower of the fighting parties as well as the circumstances are taken into account. Dupuy and his associates adjusted the parameters of his model by using known statistical facts of several recorded battles.\n\nDupuy committed suicide by gunshot at his home in Vienna, Virginia on June 5, 1995; he had learned three weeks earlier that he had terminal pancreatic cancer. He was buried in Arlington National Cemetery. During his lifetime he wrote or co-wrote more than 50 books.\n\nWhen he died, he had been married five times. He fathered nine children – six boys and three girls.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7726323", "categories": ["1916 births", "People from Vienna, Virginia", "20th-century American historians", "Burials at Arlington National Cemetery", "1995 deaths", "Male suicides", "United States Army officers", "American male non-fiction writers", "University of Yangon faculty", "Suicides by firearm in Virginia", "American military historians", "United States Military Academy alumni", "People from Staten Island", "20th-century American male writers", "American military writers"], "title": "Trevor N. Dupuy"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726326", "text": "Val Ramos\n\nVal Ramos (born , New York City) is a Nuevo Flamenco guitarist.\n\nAt the early age of 14, Ramos studied Flamenco guitar with Spanish (Malaga) Flamenco master Adonis Puerta in New York City. In 1981, he graduated from Ezra Stiles College at Yale University. He made his professional debut in the Disney Channel in 1985 and has since released three independent albums under the PIRAM Records label.\n\nSome of his musical compositions are featured in the documentaries \"Puerto Rican Passages\" (1996 Connecticut Public Television) and \"Nuyoricans\" (2001 WNET Thirteen/PBS).\n\n\n", "id": "7726326", "categories": ["Living people", "1958 births", "Flamenco guitarists", "American musicians of Puerto Rican descent"], "title": "Val Ramos"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726332", "text": "Greek New Wave\n\nThe Greek New Wave (Greek: Νέο Κύμα, ) was a movement in Greek music that started in the mid-1960s and lasted about a decade. It was a mixture of entechno and French chansons; it was so named by Giannis Spanos after the French \"Nouvelle Vague\". Most of the Greek New Wave artists released their songs in the Greek label LYRA.\n\nNotable Greek artists from the Neo Kyma movement include:\n\n\n\n", "id": "7726332", "categories": ["Greek music"], "title": "Greek New Wave"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726371", "text": "Mako Hyōdō\n\n, also credited as Mako Hyoudou, is a Japanese voice actress and member of 81 Produce company.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7726371", "categories": ["Living people", "81 Produce", "People from Tokyo", "Japanese voice actresses", "1962 births"], "title": "Mako Hyōdō"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726390", "text": "Dance Hall Days\n\n\"Dance Hall Days\" is a song by English band Wang Chung. Originally released as a single in 1982 when the band was called Huang Chung, it was re-recorded and re-released in 1984 for the album \"Points on the Curve.\" It was the band's only single to make the Top 40 charts in the UK, narrowly missing the Top 20. In the US, it peaked at No. 16 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and went all the way to number one on the Dance Club Songs chart.\n\nTwo different music videos were made to promote the single. The first version of the video, directed by Derek Jarman, is a collection of home movies with the majority of the archive footage consisting of a stage show with swimmers and fountains, and other World War II-era material. Apparently, the footage is courtesy of the director's father, who was one of the very first people ever to use a colour home movie camera. The toddler in the home movie footage is the director himself as a child. The home movies are interspersed amid footage of Jack, Nick, and Darren, lip-synching and playing the violin. The band are also dressed up as characters from \"The Wizard of Oz\" at the end of the video, with Jack Hues as the Tin Man, Nick Feldman as the Scarecrow, and Darren Costin as the Lion.\n\nThe second version of the video is the most well-known, and received heavy rotation airplay at MTV. It is a magical fantasy concept video set in the 1940s, the heyday of dance halls. The video begins in black and white, with Jack Hues stopping in front of a closed-down hall, setting down the suitcase he carries, and picking up a flyer. The scene shifts to colour, featuring the band performing in the packed hall with the backing of a big band as couples dance (played by heavily made-up children from a local dancing school). Later, a disco ball descends to the floor and breaks open, allowing a mirror-covered dancer to emerge. The video ends in black and white, with Hues walking past the hall and down the street; he leaves his suitcase behind, but it sprouts legs and hurries off after him.\n\nThis version was nominated for Best New Artist at the 1984 MTV Video Music Awards, losing to \"Sweet Dreams (Are Made of This)\" by Eurythmics.\n\n\n", "id": "7726390", "categories": ["Songs written by Jack Hues", "Wang Chung (band) songs", "Billboard Dance Club Songs number-one singles", "Song recordings produced by Chris Hughes (record producer)", "Geffen Records singles", "Song recordings produced by Ross Cullum", "1984 singles", "1983 songs"], "title": "Dance Hall Days"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726391", "text": "Edict of Boulogne\n\nThe Edict of Boulogne, also called the Edict of Pacification of Boulogne and the Peace of La Rochelle, was signed in July, 1573 by King Charles IX of France in the Château de Madrid in the Bois de Boulogne. It was officially registered by the Parlement of Paris on 11 August 1573. The treaty officially ended the fourth phase of the French Wars of Religion (set off by the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre in August 1572; this phase of the wars included the siege of La Rochelle (1572-1573) and the Siege of Sancerre).\n\nThe treaty severely curtailed many of the rights granted to the French Protestants in the previous Peace of Saint-Germain-en-Laye. Based on the terms of the treaty, all Huguenots were granted amnesty for their past actions and the freedom of belief. However, they were permitted the freedom to worship only within the three towns of La Rochelle, Montauban, and Nîmes, and there only privately within their own residences; Protestant nobles with the right of high-justice were permitted to celebrate marriages and baptisms, but only before an assembly limited to ten persons outside of their family. Outside of the three mentioned cities, Protestantism worship was forbidden completely.\nDue to pressure from the Catholic League, Henry III of France had to cancel the Peace of La Rochelle, re-criminalizing Protestantism and beginning a new chapter in the French Wars of Religion, which did not conclude until Henry IV issued the Edict of Nantes in 1598.\n\n\nBooks\n\n", "id": "7726391", "categories": ["1573 in Christianity", "Charles IX of France", "Treaties of the Kingdom of France", "French Wars of Religion", "1573 in France", "Edicts"], "title": "Edict of Boulogne"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726392", "text": "Sebastian Wikström\n\nSebastian Wikström (born 20 December 1988) is a Swedish swimmer from Borlänge, representing Upsala SS. Both his parents (Per Wikström and Eva Lundahl) and his brother Christoffer Wikström have represented Sweden.\n\n", "id": "7726392", "categories": ["Swedish male swimmers", "Living people", "Upsala SS swimmers", "1988 births"], "title": "Sebastian Wikström"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726393", "text": "Christoffer Vikström\n\nBjörn Christoffer Vilhelm Vikström (born 2 February 1987 in Borlänge, Sweden) is an Olympic swimmer from Sweden. He swam for Sweden at the 2008 Olympics.\n\nBoth his parents (Per Wikström and Eva Lundahl) and his brother Sebastian Wisktröm have represented Sweden. He holds the Swedish Junior Record in 100m Freestyle.\n", "id": "7726393", "categories": ["Olympic swimmers of Sweden", "Living people", "1987 births", "Swedish male swimmers", "Swimmers at the 2008 Summer Olympics", "Upsala SS swimmers"], "title": "Christoffer Vikström"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726394", "text": "Anti-product\n\nAnti-product may refer to:\n\n\n", "id": "7726394", "categories": [], "title": "Anti-product"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726399", "text": "Céligny Ardouin\n\nCharles Céligny Ardouin (1801–1849) was a Haitian politician and historian. He served as a Delegate in 1846, Senator, and Minister of the Interior in 1847. In 1847 he also served on the Council of Secretaries of State. Ardouin ran afoul of President Soulouque's government and was executed in 1849.\n\nCéligny Ardouin's brothers, Beaubrun and Coriolan, were also well-known, Beaubrun as a politician and historian, Coriolan as a poet. The three Ardouin brothers, along with the Nau brothers, Emile and Ignace, were members of the literary society \"The School of 1836,\" which was founded by Ignace Nau. Céligny's best known historical work, \"Essais sur l'Histoire d'Haïti\" (\"Essays on the History of Haiti\"), was first published in its entirety posthumously in 1865 by his brother Beaubrun.\n", "id": "7726399", "categories": ["Haitian Interior Ministers", "19th-century executions by Haiti", "1849 deaths", "19th-century historians", "Haitian male writers", "Executed politicians", "Ardouin family", "Executed Haitian people", "Haitian historians", "1806 births", "19th-century male writers"], "title": "Céligny Ardouin"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726401", "text": "Karigane Junichi\n\nKarigane was responsible for founding several organizations that would continue to be influential throughout the early 1900s. In 1922, he formed the Hiseikai, a group tournament, which also included Chiyotaro Onoda, Segoe Kensaku, Tamejiro Suzuki and Dohei Takabe. Karigane won the first tournament, which was notable for being played without handicaps and with a time limit.\n\nKarigane joined the Nihon Ki-in when it was founded in 1926, but shortly afterwards broke away to form the Kiseisha splinter group. Rivalry would persist between the two groups until 1991, when the Keiinsha, the eventual offshoot of the Kiseisha, was finally dissolved with the death of its last member. During the first quarter of the twentieth century, Karigane was one of the two strongest Japanese players, and his major opponent was Honinbo Shusai of the Nihon Ki-in. The two rivals, each backed by distinct organisations, finally agreed to play one another in what would become a famous and much anthologised game, lasting sixteen hours.\n\nKarigane, who was a 7 \"dan\" at the time, played as black. Shusai, the only 9 \"dan\" at the time, took white and won on time. The marked stone, representing move 211, was played shortly before Karigane conceded. Edward Lasker in his book \"Go and Go Moku\" wrote:\n\nThis game was also replayed in Hikaru no Go Season 1, Episode 4, up to a point, where Hikaru Shindo failed to heed Fujiwara no Sai's advice and deviated from Karigane's play and lost the group much earlier to arrogant Shogi captain Kaga. But then Fujiwara managed to keep the loss down to a mere 1/2 point after komi.\n\nKarigane was promoted to 8 \"dan\" in 1933, and founded the Keiinsha as a replacement for the Kiseisha in 1941. Later that year, he played against Go Seigen, one of the strongest emerging Go players, as part of a \"jubango\", a series of ten games during which players alternate colours, though when losing the opponent is typically forced to take black. Of these matches, only five were played, Seigen having won four, before the \"jubango\" was cancelled to avoid further embarrassment for Karigane.\n\nOn 1 January 1959, the Keiinsha promoted Karigane to 9 \"dan\". He died shortly after, on 21 February.\n", "id": "7726401", "categories": ["1879 births", "1959 deaths"], "title": "Karigane Junichi"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726432", "text": "Molly Newman\n\nMolly Newman is a television writer and producer from Evansville, Indiana, who is most known for work on shows such as \"The Larry Sanders Show\", \"Frasier\", \"Murphy Brown\", \"Tracey Takes On...\", \"Maximum Bob\", and \"Brothers & Sisters\".\n\nIn 1985, she was nominated for Broadway's Tony Award in the category, Best Book (Musical) with collaborator Barbara Damashek for \"Quilters\".\n\n", "id": "7726432", "categories": ["Women television producers", "Women television writers", "Screenwriters from Indiana", "American television producers", "American television writers", "Year of birth missing (living people)", "Living people", "Writers from Evansville, Indiana"], "title": "Molly Newman"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726441", "text": "John R. French\n\nJohn Robert French (May 28, 1819 – October 2, 1890) was an American publisher, editor and Republican politician. He served as a Congressional Representative from North Carolina, as Sergeant at Arms of the United States Senate and as a member of the North Carolina House of Representatives during the 1800s.\n\nFrench was born in Gilmanton, New Hampshire and received an academic education in Gilmanton and Concord, New Hampshire. He learned the printer’s trade, and for five years worked as publisher and associate editor of the \"New Hampshire Statesman\" in Concord. In 1847, while at the \"New Hampshire Statesman\", French published a volume of writings by Nathaniel Peabody Rogers titled, \"A Collection from the Newspaper Writings of Nathaniel Peabody Rogers\". He was the publisher and associate editor of \"Herald of Freedom\" in Concord, one of the first anti-slavery newspapers.\n\nHe worked as editor of the \"Eastern Journal\" in Biddeford, Maine for two years. In 1854, French moved to Lake County, Ohio where he worked as editor of the \"Telegraph\", the \"Press\", and, in 1856, the \"Cleveland Morning Leader\".\n\nIn 1858 and 1859, French served as a member of the Ohio House of Representatives. In 1861, he was appointed by Secretary Salmon P. Chase to a clerkship in the Treasury Department in Washington, D.C..\n\nFrench was appointed by President Abraham Lincoln as a member of the board of direct-tax commissioners for the State of North Carolina. He settled in Edenton, North Carolina at the close of the Civil War. In 1867, he served as a Delegate to the State constitutional convention.\n\nUpon the readmission of the State of North Carolina to representation following the Civil War, French was elected as a Republican to the Fortieth Congress, serving from July 6, 1868 to March 3, 1869. He was not a candidate for renomination in 1868.\n\nHe was elected Sergeant at Arms of the United States Senate on March 22, 1869 and served in that capacity until March 24, 1879. French was appointed secretary and disbursing office of the Ute Commission in July 1880, whereupon he returned to Washington, D.C..\n\nIn his later years, French moved to Omaha, Nebraska, and then to Boise City, Idaho, where he was editor of the \"Boise City Sun\" until his death. He is interred in Boise City Cemetery.\n\nFrench was Nathaniel Peabody Rogers's son in law.\n\n", "id": "7726441", "categories": ["People from Biddeford, Maine", "1819 births", "Members of the United States House of Representatives from North Carolina", "19th-century American politicians", "19th-century American male writers", "1890 deaths", "American male journalists", "Members of the Ohio House of Representatives", "People from Gilmanton, New Hampshire", "People from Lake County, Ohio", "People from Boise, Idaho", "19th-century American journalists", "Sergeants at Arms of the United States Senate", "American newspaper editors", "Politicians from Omaha, Nebraska", "People from Washington, D.C.", "North Carolina Republicans", "Politicians from Concord, New Hampshire", "Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives", "American newspaper publishers (people)", "People from Edenton, North Carolina"], "title": "John R. French"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726461", "text": "Erwise\n\nErwise is a discontinued pioneering web browser, and the first commonly available with a graphical user interface.\n\nReleased in April 1992, the browser was written for Unix computers running X and used the W3 common access library. Erwise was the combined master's project of four Finnish students at the Helsinki University of Technology (now merged into Aalto University): Kim Nyberg, Teemu Rantanen, Kati Suominen and Kari Sydänmaanlakka. The group decided to make a web browser at the suggestion of Robert Cailliau, who was visiting the university, and were supervised by Ari Lemmke.\n\nThe development of Erwise halted after the students graduated and went on to other projects. Tim Berners-Lee, the creator of the World Wide Web, travelled to Finland to encourage the group to continue with the project. However, none of the project members could afford to continue with the project without proper funding.\n\nThe name \"Erwise\" originates from \"otherwise\" and the name of the project group, \"OHT\".\n\n\nThe following are significant characteristics of the browser:\n\n\nErwise crashed on some versions of Unix, which Berners-Lee attributed to poor Motif implementations.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7726461", "categories": ["1992 software", "Finnish inventions", "Free software programmed in C", "Discontinued web browsers", "POSIX web browsers", "History of the Internet"], "title": "Erwise"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726480", "text": "Ohio Board of Regents\n\nThe Ohio Board of Regents is the coordinating board for higher education in Ohio. The board was created in 1963 by the Ohio General Assembly to: provide higher education policy advice to the Governor of Ohio and the Ohio General Assembly; develop a strategy involving Ohio's public and independent colleges and universities; advocate for and manage state funds for public colleges; and coordinate and implement state higher education policies. \n\nThe board consists of nine members, in addition to two ex-officio representatives from the state legislature. The nine regents are not compensated and are appointed by the Governor to nine-year terms of service. The Governor appoints the chancellor who leads a professional staff in service of higher education.\n\nThe regents have a direct, non-governing relationship with all of Ohio's colleges and universities. Working in partnership with Ohio's higher education community, the regents: advocate for and recommend how to best direct the state's investment in higher education; work with the Ohio State Board of Education to develop a seamless primary, secondary and higher education system to prepare citizens for the challenges of the 21st century; authorize and approve new degree programs; manage state-funded financial aid programs for students; and develop and advocate policies to maximize higher education's contributions to the state and its citizens.\n\nThe Ohio Board of Regents functions as the coordinating body for the University System of Ohio, which is one of the largest comprehensive systems of public higher education in the nation. The Ohio Technology Consortium (OH-TECH), a division of the Ohio Board of Regents, comprises the Ohio Supercomputer Center, the Ohio Academic Resources Network (OARnet,) the Ohio Library Information Network (OhioLINK) and eStudent Services.\n\nJim Petro was appointed chancellor of the Ohio Board of Regents in March 2011 by Governor John Kasich. \n\n", "id": "7726480", "categories": ["Education in Ohio"], "title": "Ohio Board of Regents"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726495", "text": "Walpole Island (New Caledonia)\n\nWalpole Island (French: \"Île de Walpole\") is a small and uninhabited French island, east of New Caledonia in the South Pacific. Although it is geographically part of the Loyalty Islands, administratively it belongs to the Isle of Pines municipality of New Caledonia.\n\nThere is evidence that the island had prehistoric inhabitants. Graves, shell and bone tools, as well as stone markers indicate the presence of a permanent population at some point. The island is the topic of several oral traditions from Maré and the Isle des Pines, the two closest inhabited islands. Speculation amongst the overseers of the Guano mining operation suggested that shipwreck or other castaways had also occupied the island. British captain Butler discovered the island in 1794 and named it after his ship \"Walpole\".\n\nFrom 1910 through 1936 guano was mined on the island and about 150,000 tonnes were exported to New Zealand.\n\nThe island is only visited by scientific naturalist research missions.\n\nAs the easternmost island of the Loyalty Islands arc, Walpole is located east of New Caledonia (168° 57' E, 22° 36' S). It is long North-South, and wide with an area of about .\n\nWalpole is a coral island of volcanic origin. During the last glaciation cycles, the island was submerged and rose several times, creating a coral capping. The island is bordered by eroding cliffs. On the eastern shore is a narrow plain. The island has no source of surface fresh water.\n", "id": "7726495", "categories": ["Coral islands", "Loyalty Islands", "Uninhabited islands of New Caledonia"], "title": "Walpole Island (New Caledonia)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726497", "text": "Tefkat\n\nTefkat is a Model Transformation Language and a model transformation engine. The language is based on F-logic and the theory of stratified logic programs. The engine is an Eclipse plug-in for the Eclipse Modeling Framework (EMF).\n\nTefkat was one of the sub-projects of the Pegamento project at the Distributed Systems Technology Centre (DSTC), Australia. Although the project was already underway, the most active research occurred for the submission of a response to the OMG's MOF 2.0 Queries / Views / Transformations Request for Proposals.\n\nTefkat was open-sourced before the closure of the DSTC in June 2006.\n\nTefkat defines a mapping from a set of source metamodels to a set of target metamodels. A Tefkat transformation consists of \"rules\", \"patterns\" and \"templates\". Rules contain a \"source term\" and a \"target term\". Patterns are simply named composite source terms, and templates are simply named composite target terms. These elements are based on F-logic and pure logic programming, however the absence of function symbols means a significant reduction in complexity.\n\nTefkat has two more significant language elements: \"trackings\" and \"injections\". Trackings allow arbitrary relationships to be preserved in a trace model. Injections allow the identity of target objects to be specified in terms of a function symbol. Thus injections are similar (but more powerful) to QVT's keys, which specify a target object's identity to be a function of its type and some of its properties.\n\nThe declarative semantics of a Tefkat transformation is the \"perfect\" model of traces and targets that satisfies all the rules. A more imperative semantics of a Tefkat transformation is the \"iterated least fixed-point\" of the immediate consequence of each rule. Due to stratification, these semantics are equivalent and unambiguous. Tefkat does not use explicit rule-calling; all (non-abstract) rules fire independently from all others, however rules can be loosely coupled using trackings, injections, rule extension and/or rule superseding.\n\nTefkat has an SQL-like concrete syntax designed to concisely convey the intent of each rule, pattern or template.\n\nThe Tefkat language is defined in terms of (E)MOF 2.0, however the engine is implemented in terms of Ecore, the EMOF-like metametamodel at the centre of EMF. The language is very similar to the Relations package of QVT, however it is not strictly compliant.\n\n\n", "id": "7726497", "categories": [], "title": "Tefkat"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726517", "text": "Connecticut Valley Hospital\n\nConnecticut Valley Hospital in Middletown, Connecticut is a public hospital operated by the state of Connecticut to treat people with mental illness. It was historically known as Connecticut General Hospital for the Insane. It is a historic district that was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1985.\n\nThe historic district includes late 19th and 20th century revival and late Victorian architecture. When listed on the National Register, the district included 27 contributing buildings. Also included were 25 non-contributing buildings.\n\nThe Connecticut Hospital for the Insane was formally opened in Middletown in 1868. Two years earlier, Middletown had granted the site to the State for the establishment of an asylum to accommodate Connecticut's mentally ill. By 1896, four groups of buildings had been erected and the institution was one of the largest of its kind in the country.\n\nThe site is still used as a psychiatric care facility, operated by the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services. The State has indicated that it wishes to demolish up to 24 buildings on the campus.\n\nLocated in the South Farms district, Connecticut Valley Hospital consists of a large concentration of early and contemporary buildings. The site, landscaped with broad lawns and large shade trees, is at the top of a hill and offers panoramic views of the city. Silver Street and Bow Lane pass thorough the property which is bordered by Eastern Drive, to the west. Small drives, leading from these streets, traverse the property's grounds.\n\nThe hospital consists of approximately eighty structures complemented by south and east of the main site. It includes large institutional buildings constructed of brick and brownstone, frame and brick residences, and a number of maintenance buildings. The majority of these form a large group centered on Shew Hall. This site contains approximately 200 acres. It comprises many distinctive structures that evidence different periods of the institution's development.\n\nShew Hall, the original hospital structure, was built in 1867. It functions as the administrative building and is the focal point of the institution. This large structure is named in honor of the hospital's first superintendent, Dr. Abram M. Shew. Designed by Addison Hutton of Philadelphia, it was constructed in the Second Empire style. The building was remodeled in 1939, when the interior was updated and a flat roof bordered by a parapet was installed on the main section. The three large wings display mansard roofs and details that are indicative of the main section's former appearance.\n\nStanley Hall, built around 1879, was also designed in the Second Empire style. It was the hospital's maximum security facility in prior years. Stanley Hall was dismantled and removed some time after 1999.\n\nWoodward Hall, erected around 1886, is in the Queen Anne style. It has an irregular profile that is accentuated by many ells. The structure exhibits multiple roofs capped by numerous chimneys, wide turrets, and large, gabled dormers. The interior has been recently remodeled. The Queen Anne style section of Woodward Hall was torn down in 2007, and there are tentative plans to develop a garden where it once stood. The \"newer\" section of Woodward Hall (built in the early 20th century at the same time Weeks Hall was built) still stands and houses the geriatric wards.\n\nWeeks Hall, built in 1896, was also constructed in the Queen Anne and, in addition, had features that suggested the influence of the Jacobethan Revival. Its appearance, similar to that of Woodward Hall, was highlighted by prominent, steeply pitched gables and floral designs in terra cotta. The interior sections and roofs of the western side of Weeks Hall collapsed in the 21st century, but the exterior walls remained standing until the structure burned on September 21, 2010.\n\nSmith Home, constructed about 1909, is designed in the Colonial Revival style. It has a cross-gabled roof crowned by a slender, distinctive tower. The main entrance displays fluted pilasters and a large fan in relief above the door. Currently unoccupied, the structure once housed hospital employees.\n\nOther notable early buildings are located on the grounds. The police station, a distinctive cottage, was erected in 1895. Shepherd Home and Russell Hall are two similar structures that were built in the 1920s; they exhibit large, ornate porticoes which are classical in design. There are also a number of small residences, constructed during the late nineteenth century, that have served as living quarters for the staff. Smith Home and Shepard Home once provided housing for nursing staff. Russell Hall once was used as the on-campus medical hospital.\n\nThis site reflects the history associated with the care and treatment of the mentally ill in Connecticut. The buildings, reminiscent of different eras of the hospital's past, document its progressive growth and comprise a diverse collection that contributes to the architectural variety of Middletown.\n\nThe Connecticut Wing Civil Air Patrol Wing Headquarters (NER-CT-001) is located in Beers Hall.\n\n\n", "id": "7726517", "categories": ["Psychiatric hospitals in Connecticut", "Historic districts in Middlesex County, Connecticut", "Landmarks in Connecticut", "Victorian architecture in Connecticut", "Hospital buildings completed in 1868", "Buildings and structures in Middletown, Connecticut", "Hospital buildings on the National Register of Historic Places in Connecticut", "Government buildings completed in 1868"], "title": "Connecticut Valley Hospital"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726531", "text": "Asteiidae\n\nAsteiidae is a small but widespread family of acalyptrate flies or Diptera. About 130 species in 10 genera have been described worldwide. They are rarely collected.\n\nFor terms see Morphology of Diptera.\n\nAdult asteiids are minute to small (1–3 millimeters) thin-bodied and delicate (often weakly sclerotized) flies, with yellow-black or dark colours.The wings are relatively long and transparent. The head is rounded, the male almost always with distinct interfrontal stripes. The arista may be bare or pubescent but usually has a zigzag of longer and shorter alternating rays. The postvertical bristles are weakly developed, divergent or parallel or totally absent. Ocellar bristles may be present or absent. There is one orbital bristle on each side of the frons (Shtakel'berg] (0–2 pairs of frontal bristles). Interfrontal bristles may be present as may scattered interfrontal setulae. Vibrissae may be absent or present. On the mesonotum are one to two pairs of dorsoscentral bristles. The costa is entire, without interruptions; the subcosta is reduced; posterior basal wing cell and discoidal wing cell are fused; anal cell of wing and anal vein of wing are absent. Tibiae lack a dorsal preapical bristle.\n\nSee \n\nAdults are often found on flowers and low vegetatation but have been collected at windows indoors and on tree wounds. In one genus (\"Leiomyza\") adults are found on mushrooms and bracket fungi. Adults of the species \"Astiosoma rufifrons\" Duda are attracted to wood ash after bonfires especially at evening. Larval biologies are unknown, but adults have been reared from fungi (\"Leiomyza\"), stalks of \"Cannabis sativa\", flower buds, and dried reed stems. Sabrosky (1987) suggested that the larvae may be scavengers in the frass of other insects.\n\n\nSabrosky, C.W., 1943. New genera and species of Asteiidae (Diptera), with a review of the family in the Americas. \"Annals of the Entomological Society of America\": 36(3):501-514. Available online at the Core Historical Literature of Agriculture, Albert R. Mann Library, Cornell University.\n\nSabrosky, C.W., 1956. Additions to the knowledge of Old World Asteiidae.\"Revue francaise d'entomologie\" (Nouvelle Serie) 23:216-243.\n\nThe family Asteiidae was erected by Hermann Loew\n\nSee Images at Diptera.info\n\n", "id": "7726531", "categories": ["Brachycera families", "Asteiidae"], "title": "Asteiidae"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726532", "text": "Fähnlein\n\nThe Fähnlein (in Swedish: fänika) was a military unit approximately equivalent to the company or battalion which was used in parts of Europe during the Middle Ages. The size of the unit varied, originally a Fähnlein could consist of as many as 1,000 soldiers, but numbers were generally less, around 500. It was sub-divided into sections or \"Rotten\" (singular: \"Rotte\") of between 6 and 12 men.\n\nThe \"Fähnlein\", meaning \"small banner\", consisted of small number of soldiers that were organized under a single banner, hence the unit's name. \"Rotte\" comes from the Middle Latin word \"rupta\" which means \"dispersed troop\". The word \"company\", which was used throughout Europe, superseded \"Fähnlein\" in the 17th century, even in German-speaking regions. It was later used by the scouts and Wandervögel as well as by the Deutsches Jungvolk during the Nazi era. \"Rotte\" was later also used in the organisational structure of the SS and has survived into the Bundeswehr.\n\nBy the Middle Ages, the \"Fähnlein\" was already the administrative unit with military forces, especially in the infantry. It initially had 400 to 600 men, sometimes up to 1,000. In France it usually consisted of 300 men. Georg von Frundsberg had 380 \"Landsknechte\". However, these numbers were target strengths, which were almost never attained. Thus, the actual strength of the French \"Fähnlein\" for a long time was no more than 100 to 200 men.\n\nThe regiments of different armies had very different numbers of \"Fähnlein\":\n\nThe \"Fähnlein\" consisted of a mix of archers, pikemen and halberdiers.\n\nIn the 17th century, some \"Fähnleins\" or \"fänikor\" would have a strength of only 100 to 200 men, and it was at this time that the designation \"company\" came into widespread use.\n\nIn Germany, a \"Fähnlein\" was the subordinate formation within a \"Landsknecht\" regiment. Each \"Fähnlein\" consisted of several \"Rotten\" (singular: \"Rotte\"). As a formed unit, a \"Fähnlein\" consisted of around 400 \"Landsknechte\", commanded by a captain (\"Feldhauptmann\", \"Hauptmann\" or \"Kapitän\").\n\nA \"Rotte\" consisted of eight to twelve \"Landsknechte\" or six \"Doppelsöldner\" and was led by a \"Rottmeister\". It equates roughly to the modern section or fireteam.\nAt the beginning of the 17th century, i.e. before the Thirty Years' War a \"Fähnlein\" in Germany was supposed to have the following strength:\n\nUnder Charles V the staff of a German \"Fähnlein\" was as follows:\nThis structure was also called the \"prima plana\" (Latin for \"first sheet\") because these appointments were on the first page of the muster lists.\n\nRoughly the same organization was used in Sweden, where each province raised a number of \"fänikor\", which were organized into a provincial regiment. Many of the regiments of the Swedish Army of today trace their origins back to the \"fänikor\" of the 16th century. The \"fänika\" was led by a \"Kapten\", the equivalent of a Captain.\n\nThe military rank of \"Fähnrich\" (Germany) or \"Fänrik\" (Sweden) was held by the ensigns or low ranking officer who carried the banner (German \"Fahne\", Swedish \"Fana\") of the \"Fähnlein\" or \"fänika\". The Spanish army has a similar formation called a \"Bandera\" (flag, banner).\n\n", "id": "7726532", "categories": ["Military units and formations of the Middle Ages", "Military units and formations by size", "Infantry units and formations", "Military units and formations of the Early Modern era"], "title": "Fähnlein"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726561", "text": "Great Wraps\n\nGreat Wraps is an American quick serve restaurant founded in 1974 with locations in over 18 states, primarily in food courts. Its menu consists of hot, wrapped sandwiches (including their signature Gyro Wrap), cheesesteaks, rice bowls and frozen smoothies.\n\nGreat Wraps is a franchise, established as a company in 1974 and franchised in 1986. The company's headquarters is in Atlanta, Georgia. The chief executive officer is Mark Kaplan. Bonds rated Great Wraps as one of the top 100 North American Franchises.\n\n", "id": "7726561", "categories": ["Regional restaurant chains in the United States", "Fast-food chains of the United States"], "title": "Great Wraps"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726562", "text": "HBL F.C.\n\nHabib Bank Limited Football Club or commonly known as Habib Bank Football Club and HBL F.C. are a Pakistani football club based in Karachi, Sindh, who play in the Football Federation League. The club was formed in 1975 by the Habib Bank, hence the nickname, \"the Bankers\". \n\nHBL won the National championship in 1982, beating Pakistan Railways into second place. They have also been runners up three times. \n\nThey were founding members of the Pakistan Premier League. They were relegated in the 2006–07 season, but were elected to return following expansion of the league alongside Pakistan Airlines.\n\n\n", "id": "7726562", "categories": ["1975 establishments in Pakistan", "Football clubs in Pakistan"], "title": "HBL F.C."}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726579", "text": "SQL Anywhere\n\nSAP SQL Anywhere is a proprietary relational database management system (RDBMS) product from SAP. SQL Anywhere was known as Sybase SQL Anywhere prior to the acquisition of Sybase by SAP.\n\nSQL Anywhere can be run on Windows, Windows CE, Mac OS X, and various UNIX platforms, including Linux, AIX, HP-UX and Solaris. Database files are independent of the operating system, allowing them to be copied between supported platforms. The product provides several standard interfaces (ODBC, JDBC, and ADO.NET) and a number of special interfaces such as PHP and Perl. The engine supports stored procedures, user functions (using Watcom SQL, T-SQL, Java, or C/C++), triggers, referential integrity, row-level locking, replication, high availability, proxy tables, and events (scheduled and system events). Strong encryption is supported for both database files and client-server communication.\n\nSQL Anywhere is used in several contexts, including as an embedded database, particularly as an application data store. For example, it is used in Intuit QuickBooks, in network management products, and in backup products. Its ability to be used with minimal administration is a distinguishing feature in this role.\nIt can be used as a database server for work groups or for small or medium-sized businesses. It can also function as a mobile database. It includes scalable data synchronization technology that provides change-based replication between separate databases, including large server-based RDBMS systems.\n\nSQL Anywhere Server is a high performing and embeddable relational database-management system (RDBMS) that scales from thousands of users in server environments down to desktop and mobile applications used in widely deployed, zero-administration environments.\n\n\"Ultralite\": UltraLite is a database-management system designed for small-footprint mobile devices such as PDAs and smart phones.\n\n\"Mobilink\": MobiLink is a highly-scalable, session-based synchronization technology for exchanging data among relational databases and other non-relational data sources.\n\n\"QAnywhere\": QAnywhere facilitates the development of robust and secure store-and-forward mobile messaging applications.\n\n\"SQL Remote\": SQL Remote technology is based on a store and forward architecture that allows occasionally connected users to synchronize data between SQL Anywhere databases using a file or message transfer mechanism.\n\n\n", "id": "7726579", "categories": ["Proprietary database management systems"], "title": "SQL Anywhere"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726581", "text": "Edict of Amboise\n\nThe Edict of Amboise also known as the Edict of Pacification, was signed at the Château of Amboise on 19 March 1563 by Catherine de' Medici, acting as regent for her son Charles IX of France. The treaty officially ended the first phase of the French Wars of Religion. Moreover, the treaty restored peace to France by guaranteeing the Huguenots religious privileges and freedoms.\n\nThough the Edict was not as generous as the Edict of Saint-Germain (January 1562), it still allowed open and unregulated Protestant services in the private households of nobles and in one suburb of a pre-determined town in each \"baillage\" or \"sénéchaussée\".\n\nThe Parlement of Paris, which had expelled its Huguenot members, resisted registering the Edict—as did the provincial parlements— but capitulated after remonstrances, adding the proviso that the Edict was to have limited application until the King should achieve his majority, when a national council would decide the religious question. When the King announced his majority (17 August 1563, shortly after his thirteenth birthday), he chose the provincial Parlement of Rouen as the unprecedented site of his \"lit de justice\" and published at the same time a more comprehensive version of the Edict. \n\n\n", "id": "7726581", "categories": ["1563 in law", "French Wars of Religion", "1563 in France", "Catherine de' Medici", "Treaties of the Kingdom of France"], "title": "Edict of Amboise"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726583", "text": "Braford\n\nThe Braford is a cross between a Hereford bull and a Brahman cow. Conversely, it can also be a cross between a Brahman bull and a Hereford cow. The make up of the Braford is 3/8 Brahman and 5/8 Hereford. Even though a true Braford meets those standards, 1/2 Brahman and 1/2 Hereford cross are known as F1 Brafords or F1 Baldies. They carry the characteristics of both parents. The Braford is red like a Hereford with white underbelly, head, and feet. It is stockier than a Hereford, though, getting the stockiness from the Brahman.\n\nThe Braford is primarily used for beef, but sometimes used for rodeo. Brafords were developed both in Australia in 1946 and in Florida in 1947.\n\nBrafords have heat and insect resistance because of the increased number of sweat glands and oily skin inherited from their Brahman heritage. They have been known to be of an ornery disposition, though this may be due to their raising, any predisposition toward being difficult is still a subject of debate. They are often used in Rodeos due to their massive bulk and bone density, hardiness, heat endurance, and arguably their ornery disposition. They do well in warm climates though they have been raised in northern climates and seem to do well there as well, likely due to their great bulk.\n\n\n", "id": "7726583", "categories": ["Cattle breeds", "Cattle breeds originating in the United States"], "title": "Braford"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726585", "text": "Vinnova\n\nVinnova is the Swedish government agency that administers state funding for research and development. The agency's mission as defined by the government is to promote development of efficient and innovative Swedish systems within the areas of technology, transportation, communication and labour. The agency does this by giving financial aid to companies for research, development and legal costs.\n", "id": "7726585", "categories": ["Government agencies of Sweden"], "title": "Vinnova"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726599", "text": "Kilmory Camanachd\n\nKilmory Camanachd is a shinty club from Lochgilphead, Argyll, Scotland. The club was founded in 1977 in its present form. The club plays in South Division One and has a reserve side in the Bullough cup. The club is associated with Dunadd camanachd (the ladies team)\n\nThe original Kilmory Shinty Club was founded in 1914 and had success in the 1930s. After the Second World War, the club reformed as Kilmory United and played until 1955. The club reformed in 1977, the players being school leavers and some more experienced players who had come to live in the Mid Argyll area. This team disbanded in 1994 due to team raising difficulties. The present Kilmory Camanachd Club was re-formed in 1998 Kilmory have won the following major trophies since 1977, Division Two Fraser Cup in 1978–79, 1985–86, 1988–89, 1991–92 and 1999–00; Bullough Cup in 1979 and 1992. After the reformation of the club in 1977, the club also formed a second team which took the name Furnace, one of the most famous names in shinty.\n\nFurnace won the Camanachd Cup in 1923 without conceding a goal to any team, a feat not repeated until Newtonmore in 2013. It was also an example of Furnace using early sports science to deduce that their final opponent Newtonmore's stamina was due to their backgrounds as gameskeepers and shepherds; Furnace started doing road running to build up their leg strength..\nFurnace joined with Inveraray as Lochfyneside and twice reached but lost in Camanachd Cup Finals - 1949 and 1953. However, Furnace had gone into abeyance many years before the resurrection of the name. \nThe use of the name Furnace ceased in the mid 1990s, the last Kilmory reserve team playing as Kilmory. The club's second team restarted in 2008 and will compete in the Bullough Cup.\n\nThe club won South Division One in 2004 but lost to Strathglass in a playoff for promotion to the National League. The club struggled in the 2011 season, avoiding relegation by beating Aberdour in the penultimate game of the season. This was a disappointing year after a successful 2010 that saw them reach third in the league. The 2018 season has been fairly good with only 2 defeats (9/05/18) so far this season. But the highlight of the season for Kilmory was beating there local rivals Inveraray 5-4 in a derby match at the winterton in Inveraray. Kilmory are definitely a better team.\n\nThe club is associated with Dunadd Camanachd, which was one of the original teams to start playing Women's Shinty. The club is a dominant force in the game of shinty and has been since they started up\n", "id": "7726599", "categories": ["Shinty teams", "1977 establishments in Scotland", "Sport in Argyll and Bute", "Sports clubs established in 1977"], "title": "Kilmory Camanachd"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726613", "text": "Anders Ljungstedt\n\nAnders Ljungstedt (; March 23, 1759 - November 10, 1835) Swedish merchant and historian.\n\nLjungstedt was born to a poor family in Linköping and attended Uppsala University for a time, but was forced to withdraw for lack of funds. In 1784, he went to Russia, where he worked as a teacher for ten years. Following his return to Sweden, he obtained employment in the Swedish government and served as Russian interpreter for king Gustav IV Adolf during his journey to Russia.\n\nLjungstedt was later hired by the Swedish East India Company, but after it folded, he moved to Macau, where he resided for the rest of his life working as a merchant. The King of Sweden later made him a Knight of the Order of Vasa, and in 1820 he was also appointed Sweden's first consul general in China. Ljungstedt took great interest in the history of Macau and he is famous for being the first Westerner to refute the Portuguese claim that the Ming dynasty had formally ceded sovereignty over Macau. Ljungstedt never returned to his native country and was buried in the Protestant cemetery in Macau. Today, a in Linköping bears his name and an avenue in Macau (Avenida Sir Anders Ljungstedt, 倫斯泰特大馬路) was named in his honor in 1997 still by local Portuguese government.\n\n\n", "id": "7726613", "categories": ["Knights of the Order of Vasa", "People from Linköping", "Swedish merchants", "1759 births", "Swedish emigrants to Macau", "1835 deaths", "History of Macau", "Swedish historians", "18th-century Swedish businesspeople"], "title": "Anders Ljungstedt"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726618", "text": "IPMC\n\nIPMC may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7726618", "categories": [], "title": "IPMC"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726635", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1720\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 1720, adopted unanimously on October 31, 2006, after recalling all previous resolutions on the situation in Western Sahara, including resolutions 1495 (2003), 1541 (2004) and 1675 (2006), the Council extended the mandate of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) for six months until April 30, 2007. \n\nOf the fifteen members of the Security Council, 14 approved a draft resolution that included a provision expressing concern about Moroccan human rights abuses in the occupied territory; only France objected, and thus the paragraph was omitted from the final text. The United States had suggested wrapping up the mission during discussions prior to the adoption of Resolution 1720.\n\nThe Security Council reaffirmed the need for a durable and mutual solution to the Western Sahara problem, which would provide for the self-determination of the people of the territory. Both Morocco, the Polisario Front and regional states were urged to co-operate with the United Nations to end the political impasse and reach a solution to the long-running dispute.\n\nAll parties were called upon to respect military agreements reached with MINURSO regarding a ceasefire. Member States were called upon to consider contributing towards confidence-building measures to facilitate greater person-to-person contact, such as family visits. The mandate of MINURSO was extended and the Secretary-General Kofi Annan instructed to report on the situation in Western Sahara. Furthermore, he was also instructed to ensure greater compliance with the zero-tolerance sexual exploitation policy among MINURSO personnel.\n\n\n", "id": "7726635", "categories": ["United Nations Security Council resolutions concerning Western Sahara", "United Nations Security Council resolutions concerning Morocco", "2006 in Morocco", "2006 United Nations Security Council resolutions", "2006 in Western Sahara"], "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1720"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726657", "text": "Eyes of the Insane\n\n\"Eyes of the Insane\" is a 2006 song by the American thrash metal band Slayer, taken from their 2006 album \"Christ Illusion\". The lyrics explore an American soldier's mental anguish following his return home from the second Gulf War, and are based on an article entitled \"Casualty of War\" in \"Texas Monthly\" magazine. \"Eyes of the Insane\" was written by vocalist Tom Araya during pre-production for the album. The song was generally well received by critics, and also peaked #15 on the Danish singles charts.\n\nThe accompanying music video by the Tehran-born Armenian director Tony Petrossian was recorded in the Los Angeles area in August 2006. The film is presented as a close-up of the soldier's pupil and iris, which reflect disconcerting images of war-themed horrors, flashbacks of his home, wife and children, and ultimately images of his death. \"Eyes of the Insane\" was used on the soundtrack to \"Saw III\", and won an award for the Best Metal Performance at the 49th Grammy Awards.\n\nWhile walking through an airport, vocalist Tom Araya picked up a March 2006 issue of \"Texas Monthly\" with a soldier's helmet on the front cover. Seeing the article \"Casualty of War\", he was interested enough to purchase a copy. The issue explored the involvement of military personnel from Texas in the Iraq War, and included a list of Texan soldiers who had died in the conflict. The feature was accompanied by photographs of some of the dead, while a further article dealt with the anguish of surviving soldiers on their return home. Araya later said that the article \"blew his mind\".\n\nAraya read the article during his flight back to Los Angeles. Pre-production for Slayer's ninth studio album \"Christ Illusion\" had just begun, and the band was about to undertake a three-day rehearsal with producer Josh Abraham. Araya left his baggage at the hotel to attend the rehearsals, then returned to re-read the article. Finding it to be \"very profound\", he woke up in the middle of the night and wrote down the lyrics. He said that his treatment of the topic is \"sincere\", and that he believes it to be \"one that the military doesn't want you to know. They sweep it under the rug, but it's a story that needs to be told.\" The band's guitarist, Kerry King, has said that \"these new songs [from the \"Christ Illusion\" album] aren't political at all: 'Jihad', 'Eyes of the Insane' — it's what's spewing out at us from the TV.\"\n\n\"Eyes of the Insane\" is 3 minutes 23 seconds long. A slow drum pattern played by Dave Lombardo opens the track, over which Hanneman and King play angular and descending scales on guitar. These guitar riffs evolve from verse to verse, and have been described by Allmusic as \"intensely harrowing\". The song gradually builds over the course of the verses, refrain and bridge, before resolving with a \"towering\" chorus.\n\nSome reviewers paid particular attention to Araya's vocal contribution. Zach Hothorn of \"Prefix\" magazine said the song \"allows Araya to show his vocal range, deepening to build up tension and creating a wonderfully chilling 3 and a half minutes\", while Ian Robinson of musicOMH felt the track \"is a distinct but welcome change of pace, Dave Lombardo's machine-gun rhythms forming the backbone for Tom Araya's impressively intact scream.\"\n\nBy the time Slayer decided that a music video should be filmed, touring commitments prevented their involvement in the actual shoot. Instead, others were contacted to produce the film. Director Tony Petrossian presented Slayer with the first draft, and the group made a few suggestions for improvement. Never having met him, King recalled Petrossian \"had a treatment, and we all dug the treatment so we just turned him loose.\" \"Eyes of the Insane\"'s war-themed music video was filmed on August 13, 2006, in the Los Angeles area. Casting company Tolley Casparis Casting sought a male Caucasian between the ages of 18 and 26 to appear in the clip, with auditions held on August 10, 2006. The official project notes deemed that \"This guy must be a serious actor, capable of emoting everything through his eyes. He was innocent a few months ago, now he is scarred by seeing so much fighting. Strong eyebrows that do not overpower the face. Scars or large veins actually a plus.\"\nThe video was shot as a \"first-person narrative about the horrors leading up to the final moments of a soldier at war\", and was described as \"a single, long and tight close-up of the soldier's eye with images clearly reflected within his pupil and iris and perfectly choreographed with the rhythm of the music. Reflected are disconcerting images of para trooping into enemy territory, gunfire, helicopters and tanks, explosions, poignant flashbacks of his wife and child and home, and the images of his death.\" Two endings were shot; one in which the soldier is killed as the result of sustained combat wounds, and another in which the soldier commits suicide by hanging - the latter one was used. Jeff Hanneman confirmed that the band \"loved\" the eye concept, and personally felt that the video was \"pretty amazing\" when he first viewed it. King admitted that the film is \"pretty cool — I thought it was neat idea — very different, especially for us, because we usually do performance based videos.\" The video was exclusively posted on mp3.com late in October 2006. In 2007, the video earned a Metal Hammer Golden Gods Awards nomination for Best Video, but eventually lost to Avenged Sevenfold's \"Seize The Day.\"\n\nCritics were generally positive when reviewing \"Eyes of the Insane\". \"Stylus\" magazine's Cosmo Lee described the track as \"a dark, midpaced exploration of a soldier's psyche\", and remarked that \"it's memorable and would be a good breather between the usual barnburners\". Peter Atkinson of \"KNAC.com\" felt that \"'Eyes of the Insane' offers a post-traumatic sequel to 'Mandatory Suicide', again with a soundtrack that recalls the original, but boasting a couple truly mammoth hooks that do shake things up.\" Don Kaye of \"Blabbermouth\" made a comparison to a different Slayer track than Atkinson, and commented that \"'Eyes of the Insane' and 'Catatonic' both have that slow, grinding feeling of doom that the band has done so well before on classics like 'Dead Skin Mask'.\"\n\nThe song was nominated for Best Metal Performance at the 49th annual Grammy Awards. When asked for his thoughts on the nomination, King revealed that he did not \"even care\", and noted that Slayer fans \"don't give a shit and that's the most important thing to me\". The interviewer expressed his surprise at the nomination given Slayer's \"inflammatory\" lyrics, to which King replied, \"That would be the coolest thing, you know? To win with the shit we write about.\" The ceremony was held on February 11, 2007, at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, with Slayer competing against Mastodon, Lamb of God, Ministry and Stone Sour. Slayer won the Best Metal Performance Grammy award, although the band was unable to attend because of a conflicting North American headlining tour. Araya commented about the win from a hotel room in Columbus, Ohio: \"Jeff [Hanneman] and I put a lot into 'Eyes of the Insane' so we're thrilled that the Grammy voters took the time to listen to it, and then vote for it. We're out here on the road and we're all really, really happy.\" King disagreed, deeming the song \"one of the poorest representations of us [Slayer] on the record [\"Christ Illusion\"]\". He further said that, if given the decision, he would have chosen the controversial track \"Jihad\" to represent Slayer from their ninth album \"Christ Illusion\". Critical of the Recording Academy, King said, \"Realistically, I think people on the academy who vote pick the household name ... And that's what we are.\"\n\nThe soundtrack to the 2006 horror film \"Saw III\" included \"Eyes of the Insane\", and was released on October 24, 2006, by Warcon Enterprises. The track was one of six songs performed by Slayer during their first US network television appearance on ABC-TV's \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\" (January 19, 2007), and was the only song broadcast in its entirety.\nHowever, King dislikes playing \"Eyes of the Insane\" live, commenting, \"It's just dull to play, good song just dull to play on guitar.\"\n\n", "id": "7726657", "categories": ["Slayer songs", "Grammy Award for Best Metal Performance", "Song recordings produced by Josh Abraham", "Songs about the military", "2006 singles", "Music videos directed by Tony Petrossian"], "title": "Eyes of the Insane"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726672", "text": "John Prince (biographer)\n\nRev. John Prince (1643–1723), vicar of Totnes and Berry Pomeroy in Devon, England, was a biographer. He is best known for his \"Worthies of Devon\", a series of biographies of Devon-born notables covering the period before the Norman Conquest to his own era. He became the subject of a sexual scandal, the court records of which were made into a book in 2001 and a play in 2005.\n\nJohn Prince was born in 1643 in a farmhouse (now called Prince's Abbey) on the site of Newenham Abbey, in the parish of Axminster, Devon. He was the eldest son of Bernard Prince (died 1689) (to whom John erected a monument in Axminster Church) by his first wife Mary Crocker, daughter of John Crocker, of the ancient Crocker family seated at Lyneham House in the parish of Yealmpton, Devon. Lyneham was, After \"Hele\" the second earliest known home of the Crocker family, one of the most ancient in Devon according to the traditional rhyme quoted by Prince himself which he called \"that old saw often used among us in discourse\":\n<poem>Crocker, Cruwys, and Coplestone,\nWhen the Conqueror came were at home</poem>\nJohn Prince had a family connection to his great contemporary John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough (1650–1722). Prince's father Bernard Prince had married secondly (as her second husband) to Jane Drake, a daughter of Philip Drake of Salcombe, third in descent from John Drake of Axmouth, father of John Drake (died 1558) of Ash, in the parish of Musbury. Jane was thus 3rd cousin of Sir John Drake (died 1636) of Ash, the father of Sir John Drake, 1st Baronet (died 1669), whose sister was Elizabeth Drake, mother of John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough (1650–1722). Sir John Drake, 1st Baronet (died 1669) was John Prince's godfather, and one of Prince's \"Worthies\" was Sir Bernard Drake (died 1586) of Ash, son of John Drake (died 1558).\n\nHe was educated at Brasenose College, Oxford, and became curate of Bideford. He then became minister of St. Martin's Church in Exeter. He was vicar of Totnes from 1675 until 1681, when, at the invitation of the Duke of Somerset, he was made vicar of Berry Pomeroy, a post he held for over forty years. Here he seems to have authorised much building work, as the church and vicarage have several period features.\n\nWhile at Berry Pomeroy, Prince worked on his magnum opus: a biography of his home county's many notable figures, which he probably finished in 1697. The book ran to 600 pages, with woodcuts to illustrate the 191 biographies, and he struggled to get it published because most publishers able to handle such a large book were based in London or Oxbridge. Funding was also a problem, as a scandal (see below) had temporarily deprived him of his living. The printer was forced to advertise for subscribers, while the book languished for four years. It was first published in 1701 under the title (no doubt inspired by the \"Worthies of England\" (1662) by Thomas Fuller (1608–1661)): \n\"Danmonii Orientales Illustres: or, the Worthies of Devon. A work, wherein the lives and fortunes of the most famous divines, statesmen, swordsmen, physicians, writers, and other eminent persons, natives of that most noble province from before the Norman Conquest, down to the present age, are memorised, in an alphabetical order out of the most approved authors, both in print and manuscript. In which an account is given, not only of divers very deserving persons, (many of which were never hitherto made publick) but of several antient and noble families; their seats and habitations; the distance they bear to the next great towns; their coats of arms fairly cut; with other things, no less profitable, than pleasant and delightful.\"\n\nThe \"Dumnonii\", \"Danmonii\" or \"Dumnones\" were a British Celtic tribe which inhabited Dumnonia, the peninsula now containing in its west the county of Cornwall and in its east Devon. Prince's Latin title signifies \"Illustrious Eastern Dumnonii\".\n\nIt is evident that Prince was over-ambitious in his work. The alphabetical entries from A to H fill half the book, while L to Z are squeezed into the final quarter, as money problems took their toll on his inclusions. A second volume, detailing 115 entries chosen by Prince to redress the balance, was never published, though a manuscript exists in the Devon Record Office. This manuscript was discussed, and its biographies listed, by J. Brooking-Rowe in an article in the 1900 volume of the Transactions of the Devonshire Association.\n\nA further edition was published in 1810 by Edward Upham, Exeter and Longman and Hurst, Rees and Orme, London, printed for Rees and Curtis, Plymouth. It was inscribed to \"\"The Right Hon. Hugh, Earl Fortescue, Viscount Ebrington and Baron Fortescue of Castle Hill, Lord-Lieutenant and Custos Rotulorum of the County of Devon\"\", whose \"\"ancestors claim a distinguished place\"\" in the work. It was funded by subscription, with a list of subscribers included after the list of contents.\n\nPrince married Gertrude Salter (1644–1725), youngest daughter of Anthony Salter, a physician of Exeter, by his wife Gertrude Acland, a daughter of John Acland (died 1641), of the parish of St Olave, Exeter, Mayor of Exeter in 1627. Prince included in his \"Worthies\" an uncle and a great-uncle of his wife. John Acland was the 2nd son of Baldwin Acland (died 1572) of Hawkridge, Chittlehampton, a junior branch of the later prominent Acland family which originated at Acland, Landkey, North Devon, later seated at Killerton. Gertrude Acland's eldest brother was Baldwin Acland (1607–1672), Treasurer of Exeter Cathedral, whom Prince made one of his \"Worthies of Devon\", which biography he termed a \"slender monument to the memory of a good man and a worthy divine\". Gertrude's mother was Elizabeth Duck, sister of Nicholas Duck (1570–1628), Recorder of Exeter, whom Prince also made one of his \"Worthies\", whose biography also contained a substantial biography of her other younger brother Arthur Duck (1580–1649), a lawyer and MP.\n\nIn 2001 Todd Gray published the court depositions of Prince's church trial as \"The Curious Sexual Adventure of the Reverend John Prince\", which awakened interest in Prince. It was while serving as vicar of Berry Pomeroy that a scandal occurred. In April 1699, Prince arranged a meeting with a local woman, Mary Southcote, in the back room of an inn. Their dalliance was witnessed through a broken window, they were interrupted, and a court case followed later that year. However, despite many statements against him, Prince was allowed to keep his post (from which he had been suspended), as the main witnesses were deemed to be unreliable. He returned to Berry Pomeroy and lived out his years as vicar. A plaque in St Mary's Church in Totnes states that he was well connected, and it is possible that the trial was set up by his enemies. The records of the trial were hitherto unpublished, partly due to the coarse language used by some of the witnesses; it was not until the modern age that such language became less shocking and could be included in a popular work. In 2005 the book was adapted as a play, \"The Tale of John Prince\", which was performed by the South Devon Players theatre company in 2006, at two venues relevant to the story: The Seven Sisters Hotel in Totnes (next door to the former site of Angel's inn); and also in Berry Pomeroy Church.\n\n\n", "id": "7726672", "categories": ["People from Axminster", "Historians of Devon", "1643 births", "English biographers", "People from Totnes", "1723 deaths"], "title": "John Prince (biographer)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726676", "text": "Speculation (card game)\n\nSpeculation is a simple gambling card game that was popular in the late 18th century and early 19th century.\n\nTo hold the highest trump card when all cards in play have been revealed.\n\nThe dealer antes six chips. The other players each ante four.\n\nThe dealer gives each player three cards, face down. One additional card is placed face up. This card determines the trump suit, and the card belongs to the dealer.\n\nIf the trump determining card was an Ace, the dealer wins immediately. Otherwise, the dealer may choose to keep it or to sell it to another player. Play passes to the left. If the trump-determining card was purchased, play passes to the left of the purchaser. Each player in his turn reveals a card. If the card is the highest current trump, he may keep the card or attempt to sell it to the highest bidder.\n\nThe holder of the current high trump does not take a turn revealing his cards unless all other cards have been revealed.\n\nIf no trump is revealed in the round, the pot carries over to the next round.\n\n\nThe game is mentioned in \"Mansfield Park\" by Jane Austen and \"Nicholas Nickleby\" by Charles Dickens; more recently, in \"The Emancipator's Wife\" by Barbara Hambly.\nAlso In The Thirteen Gun Salute by Patrick O'Brian.\nAlso in Throne of Jade by Naomi Novik.\nAlso in False Colours by Georgette Heyer.\n\n\n", "id": "7726676", "categories": ["18th-century card games", "Anglo-American card games", "Comparing card games"], "title": "Speculation (card game)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726679", "text": "Sébastien Pocognoli\n\nSébastien Pocognoli (born 1 August 1987) is a Belgian international footballer who plays as a left back for Standard Liège.\n\nBorn in Seraing, Pocognoli is of Italian origin.\n\nPocognoli revealed that his father worked next to the stadium. Growing up, he revealed that he initially hated football, but thanks to his stubborn father, he grew to like football as a sport.\n\nPocognoli began his career with the youth team of Standard Liège, but he left at the age of 15 to join Genk, where the club offered him a professional contract and felt Standard Liege wouldn't gave him a first team opportunities if he had stayed.\n\nPocognoli made his Genk debut, where he came on as a substitute for Marco Ingrao in the second half, in a 1–0 win over Gent on 9 April 2004, which turns out to be his own appearance this season. However, newly–Manager René Vandereycken sent him to the reserve team the following season. It wasn't until 2006 when he made a first team breakthrough at the club and played his first game for the past two years on 22 January 2006, where he made his first start and played 69th minutes before being substituted in a 2–1 loss against Charleroi. In the next game against Westerlo on 28 January 2006, Pocognoli scored his first Genk goal (and his first professional goal), in a 2–0 win. He went on to finish the 2005–06 season, making fifteen appearance and scoring once.\n\nDespite interests from clubs like Eredivisie side Ajax and Premier League side Tottenham Hotspur, Pocognoli ended up staying at the club and did well when he set up a goal for Ivan Bošnjak, in a 1–1 draw against Standard Liège on 19 August 2006. Three days later, Pocognoli signed a new contract with Genk, keeping him until 2008 and two months later, he signed another contract extension with the club, keeping him until 2011 Despite being sent–off for a second bookable offence against Sint-Truidense on 29 October 2006, Pocognoli became a regular for the club during the 2006–07 season, making thirty–four appearance in all competition. At the end of the 2006–07 season, Pocognoli was nominated for the Young Player Footballer of the Year award, but lost out to Lucas Biglia.\n\nOn 20 June 2007, Pocognoli left Genk to join Eredivisie side AZ Alkmaar, signing a five–year contract with them. The fee was worth about €2.75 million. Upon joining the club, Pocognoli revealed that he had an offer to join Bayer Leverkusen, but opted for AZ instead.\n\nPocognoli made his AZ Alkmaar debut, where he came on as a substitute in the second half, in a 4–0 win over VVV-Venlo in the opening game of the season. Pocognoli then scored his first goal for the club, in the UEFA Cup match, in a 1–0 win over Paços de Ferreira on 20 September 2007. Pocognoli scored his first league goal for the club on 9 December 2007, in a 2–1 win over Utrecht and his second later came on 22 January 2008, in a 2–1 loss against NAC Breda. Despite being absent several times, Pocognoli went on to make thirty–three appearance and scoring three times in all competition, under the management of Louis van Gaal.\n\nIn the 2008–09 season, Pocognoli continued to be in the first team regular at the club and then scored his first goal of the season, just coming on as a substitute, in a 3–3 draw against Heerenveen on 1 November 2008. His second goal for the club later came on 21 January 2009, in a 3–0 win over Achilles '29 and three days later on 24 January 2009, he scored again in a 2–0 win over De Graafschap. As the 2008–09 season, Pocognoli suffered an injury, which kept him out for six weeks. Despite this, he helped the club win the league for the first time since 1981 after title contender Ajax lost 6–2 to PSV Eindhoven on 18 April 2009. Pocognoli went on to make twenty–seven appearance and scoring three times in all competition in the 2008–09 season.\n\nAhead of the 2009–10 season, Pocognoli surprisingly attracted interest from La Liga side Barcelona. He ended the transfer speculation when he signed a contract with the club on 14 June 2009, keeping him until 2014. Pocognoli helped the club win the Johan Cruyff Shield, where he set up one of the goals, in a 5–1 win over Heereveen. However, his first team opportunities was limited under the new management of Ronald Koeman, due to injury and spent most of the first half of the season on the substitute bench. Despite this, Pocognoli set up one of the goals in the Group Stage match of the UEFA Champions League, in a 1–1 draw against Standard Liège on 9 December 2009 and then scored his first goal for the club, in a 3–0 win over ADO Den Haag a week later on 19 December 2009.\n\nDuring his time at AZ, Pocognoli later credit Van Gaal for his role of helping his formation as a footballer.\n\nOn 23 January 2010, Pocognoli was in a negotiation with a move to Belgian Pro League, signing for his former club Standard Liège. The move was confirmed the next day, where he signed a three–year contract, keeping him until 2014. Upon joining the club, Pocognoli was given number thirty–five shirt for the new season.\n\nPocognoli made his Standard Liege debut, where he made his first start and played the whole game, in a 1–0 loss against his former club, Genk on 7 February 2010, followed up by scoring his first goal, in a 1–0 win over Westerlo in the next game. Despite suffering from an injury, Pocognoli returned to the first team from injury, where he set up one of the goals, in a 1–1 draw against Zulte Waregem on 14 March 2010. Pocognoli went on to make sixteen appearances and scoring once in all competition in the second half of the season.\n\nIn the 2010–11 season, Pocognoli started the season well when he scored his first goal of the season, in a 4–0 win over Lierse on 6 August 2010. However, in a match against Sint-Truidense on 20 August 2010, Pocognoli was sent–off after a second bookable offence, in a 1–0 loss. Pocognoli was sent–off for the second time this season after a second bookable, in a 1–0 win over Germinal Beerschot on 13 November 2010. Despite suffering from an injury on the last game of the season, Pocognoli finished the 2010–11 season, making forty appearance and scoring once in all competitions.\n\nIn the 2011–12 season, Pocognoli continued to become a first team regular in the first team as a left–back position and did well when he set up the only goal in the game, in a 1–0 win over Zulte Waregem on 23 October 2011. Two weeks later on 6 November 2011, Pocognoli, once again, set up one of the goals, in a 2–1 win over Club Brugge. Three weeks later on 25 November 2011, Pocognoli then set up one of the goals, in a 3–2 win over Mechelen. Pocognoli went on to finish the 2011–12 season, making fifty–one appearance in all competition.\n\nIn the 2012–13 season, Pocognoli missed the opening game of the season after being suspended, but continued to manage his first team place following his return. However, Pocognoli suffered injuries in the first half of the season. After almost absent for two months, Pocognoli returned to the first team, where he came on as a substitute in the second half, in a 6–1 win over Charleroi on 7 December 2012. Pocognoli made eleven appearance in all competitions in the first half of the season at the club.\n\nOn 22 January 2013, Pocognoli left Belgium when he moved to German club Hannover 96, signing a three–year contract, keeping him until 2016.\n\nPocognoli made his Hannover 96 debut against Wolfsburg three days later, where he made his first start, but on the 34th minutes, he was sent off on his debut for the club. After serving a three match suspension, Pocognoli made his first team return, where he made his second start, in a 5–1 win over Hamburg on 23 February 2013. In a match against Augsburg on 30 March 2013, Pocognoli then set up one of the goals, in a 2–0 win. Despite missing out, due to injuries, Pocognoli finished the second half of the 2012–13 season, making eleven appearances in all competitions.\n\nIn the 2013–14 season, Pocognoli continued to keep his first team place despite competing with Christian Pander over a left–back position. Pocognoli continued to regain his left–back position in the first half of the season until he suffered injuries that affected most of the season. Despite this, Pocognoli finished the 2013–14 season, making twenty appearance in all competition.\n\nOn 12 July 2014, Pocognoli left Hannover 96 to sign for Premier League side West Bromwich Albion for a fee of £1,500,000, signing a three–year contract, with a year's option. Upon joining the club, Pocognoli was given the number fifteen shirt.\n\nAfter making his first start in the pre–season friendly game against Shrewsbury Town, Pocognoli made his West Bromwich Albion debut, in the opening game of the season, playing the full 90 minutes of a 2–2 draw against Sunderland. After missing a game, due to a thigh injury he sustained during a match against Southampton, Pocognoli made his return from injury, in a 2–0 loss against Everton on 13 September 2014. However, as the 2014–15 season progressed, Pocognoli lost his first team place following the arrival of new manager Tony Pulis, who preferred Chris Brunt, Chris Baird and Joleon Lescott in the left back role, as well as being hampered by injury concerns. Pocognoli ended his first season at West Brom with 16 appearances to his name.\n\nAhead of the 2015–16 season, Pocognoli considered leaving the club, citing a lack of first team opportunities. Though Pulis openly admitted Pocognoli could leave if the club's valuation was met, Pocognoli stayed at the club throughout pre-season and made his first appearance of the season in a 3–0 loss against Norwich City in the second round of League Cup. After being placed on the transfer list by West Brom during the January 2016 transfer window, Pocognoli was expected to leave the club, but no move materialised. Following this, Pocognoli said he was still determined to fight for a first team place, having only made 4 appearances in the 2015–16 season. Pocognoli finally made his first league appearance of the season, and set up Salomón Rondón to score the only goal, in a 1–0 win over Manchester United on 6 March 2016. This was to be his only Premier League appearance of the season.\n\nOn 30 August 2016, Pocognoli joined Football League Championship club Brighton & Hove Albion on a season-long loan deal following an injury to first-choice left-back Liam Rosenior. Competing with Gaëtan Bong for the left–back spot, Pocognoli made his Brighton & Hove Albion debut in a 0–0 draw against Ipswich Town on 27 September 2016, playing the full match. He scored his first goal for Brighton in a 2-1 win over Queens Park Rangers on 7 April 2017. At the end of the season, having made 20 Championship appearances, Pocognoli returned to West Brom and was released at the end of his contract.\n\nOn 16 June 2017, Pocognoli returned to Standard Liège for a third stint at the club where he began his career.\n\nOn 17 March 2018 he played as Standard Liege beat Genk 1-0 in extra time to win the 2018 Belgian Cup Final and qualify for the UEFA Europa League.\n\nPocognoli played youth football for Belgium at under-16, under-17, under-19 and under-21 level. He was a squad member at the 2007 UEFA European Under-21 Football Championship. He also played at the 2008 Summer Olympics, making 6 appearances at the tournament.\n\nAfter being called by the senior team for the first time on 24 May 2008, Pocognoli made his senior team debut on 30 May 2008, making his first start, in a 3–1 loss against Italy, and he has appeared in FIFA World Cup qualifying matches. While playing for the national team in 2009, Pocognoli was involved in a dressing room altercation with teammates Timmy Simons and Stijn Stijnen.\n\nAZ Alkmaar\n\nStandard Liege\n", "id": "7726679", "categories": ["Expatriate footballers in Germany", "Brighton &amp; Hove Albion F.C. players", "Bundesliga players", "People from Seraing", "Olympic footballers of Belgium", "Belgian expatriate sportspeople in Germany", "Living people", "Belgian expatriate footballers", "Hannover 96 players", "1987 births", "Expatriate footballers in the Netherlands", "Belgium under-21 international footballers", "Belgian people of Italian descent", "Standard Liège players", "Premier League players", "Belgian expatriate sportspeople in the Netherlands", "K.R.C. Genk players", "Belgian footballers", "West Bromwich Albion F.C. players", "Expatriate footballers in England", "Belgium international footballers", "Belgium youth international footballers", "Belgian expatriate sportspeople in England", "Eredivisie players", "AZ Alkmaar players", "Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics", "Belgian First Division A players"], "title": "Sébastien Pocognoli"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726692", "text": "Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary\n\nThe Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary (SDATS) is the seminary located at Andrews University in Michigan, the Seventh-day Adventist Church's flagship university. Since 1970 the SDATS has been accredited by the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada.It is a part of the Seventh-day Adventist education system, the world's second largest Christian school system.\n\nThe earliest ministerial education in the Seventh-day Adventist Church was simple conversion of ministers from other denominations and an apprentice-type of arrangement where aspiring ministers worked along those of more experience. Later, ministerial institutes were incorporated into the Battle Creek College curriculum. By the 1910s Arthur G. Daniells began to make calls for more ministerial education. These attempts were not realized until the beginning of the \"Advanced Bible Training School\" on the campus of Pacific Union College in 1934. The fledgling Seminary moved to the campus of Washington Missionary College in 1937 and renamed the Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary.\n\nThe Seminary consists of seven departments: Christian Ministry, Church History, Discipleship and Religious Education, New Testament, Old Testament, Theology and Christian Philosophy, and World Mission. A number of study centers and institutes are also attached to the Seminary: Center for Youth Evangelism (CYE), North American Division Evangelism Institute (NADEI), Institute for Jewish-Christian Study, Institute of Archaeology, the Institute of World Mission, Christian Leadership Center, and the Greek Manuscript Research Center.\n\nIn 1961 the Seminary had an enrollment of 129. By 2007 the Seminary's enrollment had increased to 768 students. The Seminary offers professional and academic programs. Professional programs include the Master of Divinity, the MA in Pastoral Ministry, the MA in Youth and Young Adult Ministry, the Doctor of Ministry, and the Doctor of Missiology. Academic programs include the MA (Religion), the MA (Religious Education), the Doctor of Philosophy (Religion), the Doctor of Philosophy (Religious Education), the Doctor of Philosophy (Biblical and Ancient Near Eastern Archaeology), and the Doctor of Theology. Three of these programs are offered at various sites in the U.S. and overseas (MA (Religion), MA in Pastoral Ministry, and the DMin). As of 2010, its total enrollment is over 1200 students.\n\nIn 1970 the Seminary opened up an archeological museum. The core collection of several hundred items came from Siegfried H. Horn and other donors. The museum was named in honor of Dr. Horn in 1979.\n\nThe Advanced Bible School (1934-1937) was the forerunner of the Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary. In addition, the SDA Theological Seminary became part of Potomac University from 1957-1960, which in 1960 merged with Emmanuel Missionary College, in Berrien Springs, Michigan, to become Andrews University.\n\nPresidents\n\nDeans\n\n", "id": "7726692", "categories": ["Seventh-day Adventist education", "Seminaries and theological colleges in the United States", "Andrews University"], "title": "Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726710", "text": "Allard Baird\n\nAllard Baird (; born November 8, 1961) is an American professional baseball executive for the New York Mets of Major League Baseball (MLB), currently vice president and assistant general manager for scouting and player development. Baird previously held executive positions with the Kansas City Royals and Boston Red Sox.\n\nBaird grew up in Rochester, New Hampshire, where he played baseball for the Spaulding High School Red Raiders. He played college baseball at Southern Arkansas University (SAU) in 1985, coached at SAU in 1986, and then was the head coach at Broward Community College in 1987. Baird was inducted to the SAU hall of fame in 2012.\n\nBaird spent 18 years in the Kansas City Royals organization, starting as the hitting coach for Class A Appleton of the Midwest League in 1988. He worked his way up the executive ladder, including serving as an assistant to the GM (1998) and assistant GM (1999–2000).\n\nBaird replaced Herk Robinson as the Royals' general manager on June 17, 2000. Baird's job was a difficult one: taking a small-market, losing-record team and trying to compete against teams like the Cleveland Indians and Chicago White Sox.\n\nDuring his six full years as general manager, Baird traded away popular players Johnny Damon, Carlos Beltrán, and Jermaine Dye with many Royal fans feeling that the team didn't get equal value. He also signed free agent Juan González to a one-year, $4 million contract, but he played only 33 games due to a back injury.\n\nAfter a poor start to the 2006 Royals season, Baird was fired on May 31 and replaced by Dayton Moore. During Baird's tenure, the team amassed a win-loss record of 381–576 (.398), including three 100-loss seasons and only one winning season (2003). The Royals did lead MLB in hits for the season.\n\nBaird joined the Boston Red Sox in 2006 as an assistant to the general manager after his firing in Kansas City, and later was named vice president and director of professional scouting.\nBaird later became the senior vice president of player personnel, serving under President of Baseball Operations Dave Dombrowski. The Red Sox won the World Series three times during Baird's time with the team; 2007, 2013, and 2018.\n\nOn November 28, 2018, Baird was hired by the New York Mets, to work for new general manager Brodie Van Wagenen.\n", "id": "7726710", "categories": ["Baseball coaches", "Major League Baseball general managers", "Kansas City Royals executives", "Boston Red Sox executives", "Kansas City Royals scouts", "1961 births", "Living people", "People from Rochester, New Hampshire", "New York Mets executives"], "title": "Allard Baird"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726713", "text": "Knutsford Academy\n\nKnutsford Academy, formerly known as Knutsford High School, is a secondary school in Knutsford, Cheshire, England. It has Specialist School Status in the areas of English and Humanities. As of 2014, it also includes a Studio school site.\n\nThe upper school on Bexton Rd was opened as a secondary modern school for boys and girls on 13 November 1953. The lower school on Westfield Drive was built as a separate school for girls and opened on 26 April 1966. In 1973 the two schools combined to form one comprehensive co-educational establishment known as Knutsford County High School. Over 2011-12, work was being performed on the lower site to remove asbestos that was built into the walls.\n\nKnutsford High School became Knutsford Academy on 1 April 2012 after gaining Academy status. This brought with it a complete uniform change. Instead of the previous Blue polo shirt and jumper, the current uniform is a plain and simple black business-style suit for years 9,10 and 11. Students are free to choose their own tie design. For years 7 and 8, a Blue Blazer is worn with a stripey blue clip-on tie.\n\nThe school has a full traditional sixth-form facility, running alongside or as an alternative to the Studio.\n\nThere are two main sites to the school, lower and upper school. The Upper Site also has the new Studio School building. Between the two sites there is a public walkway known as the link path. Students in years 7 to 8 are taught in the lower school building. At year 9 the students begin at upper school. Lower school was once known as middle school as it was considered the middle stage of education back when students were expected to find work after their final year at the school - upper school being the last stage of education. The upper school building is joined to the Knutsford Leisure Centre providing sporting facilities for the P.E department. Outside both buildings are fields with multiple football pitches and multiple tennis courts and a three-pitch astroturf pitch.\nAs of 2014, the Upper Site features a \"Studio School\" , headed by Nicola Hall, who was brought in especially for the job. George Osborne, member of Parliament for Tatton, was there to officially start the construction of the new site. The site was opened officially on 22 January 2015 by George Osborne.\n\nKnutsford Academy offers technology available for CAD (Computer Aided Design), Computer Graphics and physical construction design, with hardware including over 100 individual Apple macs. Those available to all upper students and most teachers have white mac books (most running OSX Tiger or Windows XP) or Notebooks. These were replaced 2013-14 with Toshiba Laptops. For students, there are over two hundred general use ICT computers across both sites. Most computers are able to use industry-standard software, such as Adobe Creative Suite 6, or CS6. In 2014, Microsoft Office 365 was in the process of starting to replace the existing Office 2013 software. The school also has laser cutters for cutting out CAD work and numerous other wood working devices.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7726713", "categories": ["Secondary schools in the Borough of Cheshire East", "Academies in the Borough of Cheshire East"], "title": "Knutsford Academy"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726728", "text": "Old Middletown Post Office\n\nThe Old Middletown Post Office, in Middletown, Connecticut, also known as the U.S. Post Office, was built in 1916. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) in 1982. The building is also on the NRHP as a contributing property of the Main Street Historic District.\n\nThe building is made of limestone using a structural system of load bearing masonry. It was designed by the Office of the Supervising Architect under James A. Wetmore and built by W. H. Frissell & Co. of New York City.\n\nThis fine, two-story example of the Renaissance Revival style is located on the south west corner of Court and Main Streets facing the Connecticut River. Across Court Street to the north is the massive Liberty Bank building and to its south across a parking lot; is the Bank of America building. Together these three buildings give this section of the central business district a solid and classical look.\n\nIn 1911, the United States Government decided to build a new post office facility in Middletown. Preparations for construction began shortly thereafter. The selection of the building's location was a topic of much controversy. The government finally chose this location, federally owned since 1841, in the center of Middletown's commercial and financial district.\n\nContemporary sources indicate that the new post office was a source of civic pride for the citizens of Middletown. Its facade of smooth limestone distinguished it in a city center where brick and Portland brownstone were the common building materials. The classical facade displays a two-story arrangement of arched windows and pilasters supporting an elaborate entablature. The interior features a large two story open lobby.\n\nThe old post office ceased operation in 1977, ending 136 years of federal use of that site.\n\nLiberty Bank uses this building as office space and keeps the building in good condition.\n\n\n", "id": "7726728", "categories": ["Renaissance Revival architecture in Connecticut", "Buildings and structures in Middletown, Connecticut", "Landmarks in Connecticut", "National Register of Historic Places in Middlesex County, Connecticut", "Post office buildings in Connecticut", "Post office buildings on the National Register of Historic Places in Connecticut", "Government buildings completed in 1916"], "title": "Old Middletown Post Office"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726738", "text": "Abdus Sattar (West Bengal politician)\n\nAbdus Sattar is a politician in West Bengal, India, belonging to the Indian National Congress.He Was a Former Communist Party of India (Marxist) Politician. After the 2006 West Bengal state assembly election [in which he was elected MLA from the Amdanga constituency) he became Minister of State for Minorities Development, Welfare and Madrasah Education in the Left Front Ministry. Sattar was the president of the West Bengal Madrasah Board before serving as minister.\n\nPrimarily he is a professor of Bengali literature and language and a research scholar of Rabindra literature\n", "id": "7726738", "categories": ["Living people", "People from North 24 Parganas district", "Communist Party of India (Marxist) politicians from West Bengal", "Year of birth missing (living people)", "State cabinet ministers of West Bengal"], "title": "Abdus Sattar (West Bengal politician)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726752", "text": "Coriolan Ardouin\n\nCoriolan Ardouin (11 December 1812 – 12 July 1836) was a Haitian romantic poet. Ardouin left only one work before his early death: a compilation of poems entitled \"Reliques d'un Poète Haïtien\" (\"Relics of a Haitian Poet\"), published posthumously in 1837.\n\nArdouin lived a life of tragedy. As he was born, his two-year-old brother lay dying in another room. He was orphaned at age 15 and subsequently lost his older sister as well. His wife died after five months of marriage and his own death followed soon after. A legend tells that a black butterfly landed on Ardouin's cradle at his birth, a bad omen signaling the miseries to come.\n\nCoriolan Ardouin's brothers, Beaubrun and Céligny, were well known as historians and politicians. The three Ardouin brothers, along with the Nau brothers, Emile and Ignace, were members of the literary society \"The School of 1836,\" which was founded by Ignace Nau\n", "id": "7726752", "categories": ["People from Port-au-Prince", "1812 births", "Haitian male poets", "19th-century male writers", "19th-century Haitian poets", "1835 deaths", "Ardouin family"], "title": "Coriolan Ardouin"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726759", "text": "Intersection graph\n\nIn the mathematical area of graph theory, an intersection graph is a graph that represents the pattern of intersections of a family of sets. Any graph can be represented as an intersection graph, but some important special classes of graphs can be defined by the types of sets that are used to form an intersection representation of them.\n\nFor an overview of both the theory of intersection graphs and important special classes of intersection graphs, see .\n\nFormally, an intersection graph is an undirected graph formed from a family of sets\nby creating one vertex \"v\" for each set \"S\", and connecting two vertices \"v\" and \"v\" by an edge whenever the corresponding two sets have a nonempty intersection, that is,\n", "id": "7726759", "categories": [], "title": "Intersection graph"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726775", "text": "Garcia I\n\nGarcia I may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7726775", "categories": [], "title": "Garcia I"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726790", "text": "Kinslayer\n\nKinslayer may refer to:\n", "id": "7726790", "categories": [], "title": "Kinslayer"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726804", "text": "SK Neptun\n\nSK Neptun, \"Simklubben Neptun\", Swedish swim team from Stockholm founded October 12, 1906 by members from Stockholms KK. Home pool is Eriksdalsbadet in Stockholm. The club practises swimming, diving, water polo, synchronized swimming and masters swimming.\n\n\n", "id": "7726804", "categories": ["Swimming clubs in Sweden", "Sports clubs established in 1906"], "title": "SK Neptun"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726812", "text": "Oji Eagles\n\nThe club was founded as the Oji Eagles in 1925. They have won the Japan League 13 times, the All Japan Championship 36 times and the Asia League 2 times. Oji became a founding member of Asia League Ice Hockey in 2003.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7726812", "categories": ["Asia League Ice Hockey teams", "Ice hockey teams in Japan", "Sports teams in Hokkaido", "Ice hockey clubs established in 1925"], "title": "Oji Eagles"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726829", "text": "Oxy-fuel combustion process\n\nOxy-fuel combustion is the process of burning a fuel using pure oxygen instead of air as the primary oxidant. Since the nitrogen component of air is not heated, fuel consumption is reduced, and higher flame temperatures are possible. Historically, the primary use of oxy-fuel combustion has been in welding and cutting of metals, especially steel, since oxy-fuel allows for higher flame temperatures than can be achieved with an air-fuel flame.\n\nThere is currently research being done in firing fossil-fueled power plants with an oxygen-enriched gas mix instead of air. Almost all of the nitrogen is removed from input air, yielding a stream that is approximately 95% oxygen. Firing with pure oxygen would result in too high a flame temperature, so the mixture is diluted by mixing with recycled flue gas, or staged combustion. The recycled flue gas can also be used to carry fuel into the boiler and ensure adequate convective heat transfer to all boiler areas. Oxy-fuel combustion produces approximately 75% less flue gas than air fueled combustion and produces exhaust consisting primarily of CO and HO (see figure).\n\nThe justification for using oxy-fuel is to produce a CO rich flue gas ready for sequestration. Oxy-fuel combustion has significant advantages over traditional air-fired plants. Among these are:\n\n\nEconomically speaking this method costs more than a traditional air-fired plant. The main problem has been separating oxygen from the air. This process needs lots of energy, nearly 15% of production by a coal-fired power station can be consumed for this process. However, a new technology which is not yet practical called chemical looping combustion can be used to reduce this cost. In chemical looping combustion, the oxygen required to burn the coal is produced internally by oxidation and reduction reactions, as opposed to using more expensive methods of generating oxygen by separating it from air.\n\nAt present in the absence of any need to reduce CO emissions, oxy-fuel is not competitive. However, oxy-fuel is a viable alternative to removing CO from the flue gas from a conventional air-fired fossil fuel plant. However, an oxygen concentrator might be able to help, as it simply removes nitrogen.\n\nIn industries other than power generation, oxy-fuel combustion can be competitive due to higher sensible heat availability. Oxy-fuel combustion is common in various aspects of metal production.\n\nThe glass industry has been converting to oxy-fuel since the early 1990s because glass furnaces require a temperature of approximately 2800 degrees F, which is not attainable at adiabatic flame temperatures for air-fuel combustion unless heat is regenerated between the flue stream and the incoming air stream. Historically, glass furnace regenerators were large and expensive high temperature brick ducts filled with brick arranged in a checkerboard pattern to capture heat as flue gas exits the furnace. When the flue duct is thoroughly heated, air flow is reversed and the flue duct becomes the air inlet, releasing its heat into the incoming air, and allowing for higher furnace temperatures than can be attained with air-fuel only. Two sets of regenerative flue ducts allowed for the air flow to be reversed at regular intervals, and thus maintain a high temperature in the incoming air. By allowing new furnaces to be built without the expense of regenerators, and especially with the added benefit of nitrogen oxide reduction, which allows glass plants to meet emission restrictions, oxy-fuel is cost effective without the need to reduce CO emissions. Oxy-fuel combustion also reduces CO release at the glass plant location, although this may be offset by CO production due to electric power generation which is necessary to produce oxygen for the combustion process.\n\nOxy-fuel combustion may also be cost effective in the incineration of low BTU value hazardous waste fuels. It is often combined with staged combustion for nitrogen oxide reduction, since pure oxygen can stabilize combustion characteristics of a flame.\n\nThere are pilot plants undergoing initial proof-of-concept testing to evaluate the technologies for scaling up to commercial plants, including\n\nOne case study of oxy-fuel combustion is the attempted White Rose plant in North Yorkshire, United Kingdom. The planned project was an oxy-fuel power plant coupled with air separation to capture two million tons of carbon dioxide per year. The carbon dioxide would then be delivered by pipeline to be sequestered in a saline aquifer beneath the North Sea. However, in late 2015 and early 2016, following withdrawal of funding by the Drax Group and the U.K. government, construction was halted. The unforeseen loss of the federal CCS Commercialisation Programme, along with decreased subsidies for renewable energy, left the White Rose Plant with insufficient funds to continue development. \n\n", "id": "7726829", "categories": [], "title": "Oxy-fuel combustion process"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726835", "text": "Al-Fawwar spring\n\nAl-Fawwar spring (, Nab` al-Fawwar) is a spring found in northern Syria in a town called Zweitina, which is administratively belonging to the Homs Governorate.\n\nIt is one of the most important landmarks in the town because of its religious significance, as it is located near the Saint George Monastery. Al-Fawwar is basically a small grotto which is entered by going down a few steps where water is released from a few openings. The spring is known for flowing sporadically with random time intervals, the spring might not flow in days or even months. Loud sounds emitted from the underground would usually signal that the spring will flow and are heard minutes before the it starts flowing. The water would usually keep on flowing for a few hours, sometimes a day or two and the water would spread to smaller springs. This phenomenon is explainable though, the water at the opening traps the air and under high pressure the air pushes the water and causes this random strong flow of water. People regard this event as a good sign of good luck and are always happy when this happens. The spring is surrounded with many restaurants, cafeterias and hotels. Thousands visit the Al-Fawwar spring every year, mainly tourists and visitors visiting the monastery.\n\nThis spring was called \"\"Sabte\"\" during the reign of the Roman emperor Titus in Syria.\n\n", "id": "7726835", "categories": ["Springs of Syria", "Homs Governorate"], "title": "Al-Fawwar spring"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726870", "text": "Query (complexity)\n\nIn descriptive complexity, a query is a mapping from structures of one signature to structures of another vocabulary. Neil Immerman, in his book Descriptive Complexity, \"use[s] the concept of query as the fundamental paradigm of computation\" (p. 17).\n\nGiven signatures formula_1 and formula_2, we define the set of structures on each language, formula_3 and formula_4. A query is then any mapping\n\nformula_5\n\nComputational complexity theory can then be phrased in terms of the power of the mathematical logic necessary to express a given query.\n\nA query is order-independent if the ordering of objects in the structure does not affect the results of the query. In databases, these queries correspond to generic queries (Immerman 1999, p. 18). A query is order-independent iff formula_6 for any isomorphic structures formula_7 and formula_8.\n", "id": "7726870", "categories": [], "title": "Query (complexity)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726878", "text": "Mimi le Duck\n\nMimi le Duck is a musical with book and lyrics by Diana Hansen-Young and music by Brian Feinstein. \"Mimi Le Duck\" premiered at the Adirondack Theater Festival in 2004, followed by a run at the Fringe Festival that same year. The musical opened on November 6, 2006 Off-Broadway at New World Stages. Directed by Tom Caruso, the cast featured Tom Aldredge, Candy Buckley, Robert DuSold, Allen Fitzpatrick, Annie Golden, Ken Jennings, Marcus Neville and Eartha Kitt, with musical staging by Matt West. The production closed on December 3, 2006 after 28 previews and 30 regular performances.\n\nThe musical had scenic design by Tony Award-winner John Arnone; costume design by Tony Award-winner Ann Hould-Ward; lighting design by David Lander; and sound design by Tony Smolenski IV and Walter Trarbach.\n\nThe plot follows Miriam (Golden), a discontented Mormon housewife from Ketchum, Idaho, who, in a moment of desperate inspiration (and a visit from the ghost of Ernest Hemingway), packs her bags and moves to Paris, leaving behind her husband and her successful career as a painter of duck canvases for QVC.\n\nThe show received some of the worst reviews of the 2006-07 season. Neil Genzlinger's review in the \"New York Times\" was dismissive, focusing on the legendary status of Eartha Kitt, who plays but a minor role, stating that she was \"really [the] only one character worth mentioning\". The review went on to say that: \n\"[a]ssorted other characters materialize, all laboriously wacky. Diana Hansen-Young, who wrote the book and lyrics (the music is by Brian Feinstein), may be the kind of person whose idea of “outrageous” doesn’t go much further than Milton Berle.\"\n\nFrank Scheck of the \"New York Post\" wrote: \n\"As has become depressingly common lately in musicals, the score by Brian Feinstein (music) and Diana Hansen-Young (book and lyrics) is utterly generic and forgettable, failing to bring any life to the insipid scenario.\"\nLarry Worth of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" wrote: \"Accordingly, in the spirit of a show where bad puns and hoary platitudes rule, maybe it is fitting that \"Mimi le Duck\" brings new meaning to foul play.\"\n\n\"Variety\"'s was similarly unimpressed stating: \"How do you say 'vanity production' in French?\"\n\n\"Mimi le Duck\" has inspired a small cult following at colleges and universities around America, with some students reporting little rubber duckies with \"mimi\" written on them left on their seats in classes.\n\n", "id": "7726878", "categories": [], "title": "Mimi le Duck"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726893", "text": "Peace of Longjumeau\n\nThe Peace of Longjumeau (also known as the Treaty of Longjumeau or the Edict of Longjumeau) was signed on 23 March 1568 by Charles IX of France and Catherine de' Medici. This accord officially ended the second phase of the French Wars of Religion. Overall, the treaty confirmed the Edict of Amboise, which granted significant religious privileges and freedoms to the Huguenots. The treaty expired in August 1568.\n\n\n", "id": "7726893", "categories": ["Catherine de' Medici", "Charles IX of France", "1568 treaties", "1568 in France", "French Wars of Religion", "Peace treaties of the Ancien Régime"], "title": "Peace of Longjumeau"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726894", "text": "List of submissions to the 72nd Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film\n\nThe Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film was created in 1956 by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to honour non-English-speaking films produced outside the United States. The award is handed out annually, and is accepted by the winning film's director, although it is considered an award for the submitting country as a whole. Countries are invited by the Academy to submit their best films for competition according to strict rules, with only one film being accepted from each country.\n\nFor the 72nd Academy Awards, the Academy invited 75 countries to submit films for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. The submission deadline was set on November 1, 1999. Forty-seven countries submitted films to the Academy, surpassing the record set in 1994. The Asian nations of Bhutan, Nepal and Tajikistan submitted films for the first time ever. The nominations were announced on February 15, 2000, and the winner was revealed during the awards presentation held on March 26, 2000. Belgium's submission \"Rosetta\" was not nominated, even though it had received the prestigious Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival the previous year. Nepal received its first and so far only nomination for \"Caravan\", a film made in the Tibetan language, which is spoken in parts of Nepal, about the country's now disappearing salt-trade system. The four other nominated films came from France, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. The latter received its nomination for \"Solomon and Gaenor\", the first film made entirely in Welsh and Yiddish. Spain eventually won the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film for Pedro Almodóvar's \"All About My Mother\". It was the country's third win after \"Volver a Empezar (To Begin Again)\" in 1982 and \"Belle Époque\" in 1993. Almodóvar dedicated the award to the Spanish people and to Spain, and had to be dragged from the stage after an overlong speech in which he thanked numerous saints and relatives.\n\n", "id": "7726894", "categories": [], "title": "List of submissions to the 72nd Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726920", "text": "BMW R69S\n\nThe R69S, R69US, and R69 are motorcycles, fitted with 594 cc boxer twin engines, that were manufactured by BMW in Munich, Germany.\n\nFrom 1955 to 1969, 15,347 of these 594 cc shaft-drive, opposed twin motorcycles were built. The R69 was produced from 1955 to 1960, the R69S was produced from 1960 to 1969, and the 42 hp R69US was produced from 1968 to 1969.\nThese models were designed as relatively high powered, high compression sport bikes, although the Earles fork R69 and R69S came with sidecar lugs installed on the frames. These lugs were deleted from the telescopic fork \"US\" models. The low compression R60/2, produced from 1955 to 1960, was designed primarily for sidecar use, though it was popularly used as a solo bike, along with the 30 hp R60US, which was produced between 1968 and 1969.\n\nThe sport-oriented R69S, R69US, and R69 succeeded the plunger-framed 1951 to 1955 R68, which had an engine very similar to that in the later R69.\n\nThe R69US models, with telescopic forks, which were used later on the BMW R-/5 series motorcycles, were introduced in the United States for the 1968 model year and then continued for 1969. Front and rear side reflectors, demanded by the U. S. Department of Transportation, were introduced only for the 1969 model year, along with a DOT sticker that was placed on the rear fender. The previous Earles fork continued to be offered during these years.\n\nIn June 1962, \"Cycle World\" magazine published a review of the R69S. Its initial and concluding paragraphs read:\nR69S Specifications. (R69 specifications shown in parentheses when different from the R69S)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7726920", "categories": ["Motorcycles powered by flat engines", "BMW motorcycles", "Shaft drive motorcycles"], "title": "BMW R69S"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726945", "text": "Oxycyte\n\nOxycyte is an experimental third-generation perfluorocarbon (PFC) therapeutic oxygen carrier invented by Leland Clark and developed by Tenax Therapeutics (TENX; formerly Oxygen Biotherapeutics, Inc. and Synthetic Blood International). It is designed to enhance oxygen delivery to damaged tissues. Through a collaborative agreement, Oxycyte (under the development code name of ABL-101) is now being developed by Aurum Biosciences Ltd, with an initial indication in acute ischemic stroke.\n\nWhen used as an intravenous emulsion, Oxycyte can carry as much as five times more oxygen than hemoglobin, making it an effective means of transporting oxygen to tissues and carrying carbon dioxide to the lungs for disposal. Like all PFC-based products, Oxycyte is not a complete blood substitute.\n\nBecause Oxycyte is a PFC, and not based on hemoglobin, it does not have the safety issues associated with hemoglobin-based products; there have been no adverse events in company clinical trials that were related to Oxycyte. Tenax believes that Oxycyte has a very favorable risk-benefit profile for its potential indications.\n\nAurum Biosciences has received Wellcome Trust HICF funding to take Oxycyte into a phase IIa clinical trial in stroke patients. This work will investigate both therapeutic potential and its ability to enhance the diagnostic potential of MRI in stroke.\n\nAurum Biosciences promotes Oxycyte as having potential for use in multiple indications, including cardiology, oncology, epilepsy and neuro-degenerative diseases. \n\nThe active chemical substance in Oxycyte is Perfluoro(tert-butylcyclohexane), a saturated alicyctic PFC (molecular formula CF).\n\n", "id": "7726945", "categories": [], "title": "Oxycyte"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726978", "text": "R69\n\nR69 may refer to:\n", "id": "7726978", "categories": [], "title": "R69"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726979", "text": "APOP Paphos FC\n\nAPOP Paphos (, \"Athlitikos Podosfairikos Omilos Pafos\"; \"Athletic Football Club Paphos\") was a Cypriot football club based in the city of Paphos. Founded in 1961, was playing sometimes in First and sometimes in the Second Division.\n\nIn contrast with the other Districts of Cyprus and other major towns, which had permanent teams in First Division, Paphos did not have such a team as the two clubs of the town, APOP Paphos and Evagoras Paphos, could not remain in First Division for many years. For this reason the two clubs were merged to form AEP Paphos F.C. as the people of Paphos wanted a permanent team in First Division.\n\n", "id": "7726979", "categories": ["2000 disestablishments in Cyprus", "Defunct football clubs in Cyprus", "1953 establishments in Cyprus", "Association football clubs established in 1953", "Association football clubs disestablished in 2000", "APOP Paphos FC"], "title": "APOP Paphos FC"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726983", "text": "Susham Bedi\n\nSusham Bedi (born 1 July 1945) is an Indian author of novels, short stories and poetry, currently living in the United States. She was a professor of Hindi language and literature at the department of Middle Eastern and Asian Languages and Cultures (MEALAC) at Columbia University, New York. She writes predominantly about the experiences of Indians in the South Asian diaspora, focusing on psychological and 'interior' cultural conflicts. Unlike other prominent Indian American novelists she writes mainly in Hindi rather than in English. She has been widely translated into English, French, Dutch and other languages by artists, academics, and students.\n\nShe was an actress in India in the 1960s and early 1970s. More recently in the United States she has appeared on such shows as \"\", \"Third Watch\", and \"\", and in movies such as \"The Guru\" (2002) and \"ABCD\" (1999). She is the mother of the actress Purva Bedi.\n\nIn 2007 she was awarded 100,000 rupees by Uttar Pradesh Hindi Sansthan for her contributions to Hindi language and literature.\n\nIn January 2006 she was honored by Sahitya Academy in Delhi for her contributions to Hindi literature.\n\nBedi began her writing career in high school and college, entering local competitions and writing articles and stories for magazines. She also worked as an actress and commentator on Indian television in the late-1960s and 1970s.\n\nShe attended Delhi University and Panjab University in India and taught Hindi literature. Her PhD dissertation was published in 1984 as \"Innovation and Experimentation in Contemporary Hindi Drama\" by Parag publications in India.\n\nFrom 1974 to 1979 she wrote for \"The Times of India\" as one of their correspondents from Brussels, Belgium. In 1979 she came to the United States with her husband.\n\nBedi has been involved in exploring questions of identity, authenticity, and transformation, in her cultural criticism and academic work, and these themes are reflected as well in her fiction writing. She is the author of eight major Hindi language novels, as well as collections of Hindi short stories and poetry. These have been widely translated and have been the subject of academic dissertations and debates on the South Asian diaspora experience.\n\nShe has also been involved in Hindi language pedagogical research and has developed original reading and listening comprehension materials in Hindi. Many of these materials are available on the internet. Her \"Using Authentic Materials in the Language Classroom: A Case in Hindi\" was included in the anthology \"Teaching and Acquisition of South Asian Languages\" (University of Pennsylvania Press).\n\nFrom 1990 to 1991, she contributed to a BBC weekly program, \"Letters from Abroad\", in which she discussed day to day issues about life in New York.\n\nHer most well-known novel is \"Havan\" (1989), which was translated into English by David Rubin and published by Heinemann International under the title \"The Fire Sacrifice\" in 1993. Her novels and short stories often feature female protagonists who are in the process of negotiating new identities which are neither fully old nor new, often finding identity and strength in the impurities in their lives. Bedi's narrative focus tends to be on the negotiative and transformative process itself, the pain and tragedy of cultural loss, but also the sense of hope and opportunity in forging new and stronger identities if one is willing to endure the transformative process. Her works are thus located squarely in the South Asian diaspora and immigrant experience.\n\n\n\n\nBedi has appeared on \"\", \"Third Watch\", and \"\", and in movies such as \"The Guru\" (2002) and \"ABCD\" (1999).\n\n\n\"Asian American Novelists: A Bio-Bibliographical Critical Sourcebook\" edited by Emmanuel S. Nelson. The entry for \"Susham Bedi\" includes critical appraisals, biography, bibliography, and list of recent writings on or about Susham Bedi's work.\n\n", "id": "7726983", "categories": ["Hindi-language writers", "Novelists from New York (state)", "Columbia University faculty", "People from Firozpur", "20th-century American novelists", "American women novelists", "1945 births", "Living people", "Indian emigrants to the United States", "21st-century American novelists", "Recipients of the Sahitya Akademi Award in Hindi", "20th-century American women writers", "American women novelists of Indian descent"], "title": "Susham Bedi"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727020", "text": "Nippon Paper Cranes\n\nThe were an Asia League Ice Hockey team based in Kushiro City in Hokkaidō, Japan.\n\nThe club was founded as Jūjō Paper Kushiro Ice Hockey Club in 1949. They adopted the new name Nippon Paper Cranes in 1993 when Jūjō Paper and Sanyō Kokusaku Pulp merged to form Nippon Paper.\n\nThey won the inaugural Asia League Ice Hockey title in the 2003–04 season, and have won it four times overall. They also have won the All Japan Ice hockey Championship seven times. After the 2018–19 season, the team was dissolved.\n\n\n", "id": "7727020", "categories": ["Sports teams in Hokkaido", "Sports clubs established in 1949", "Asia League Ice Hockey teams", "Ice hockey teams in Japan", "Ice hockey clubs disestablished in 2019", "Nippon Paper"], "title": "Nippon Paper Cranes"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727036", "text": "Merchantville School District\n\nThe Merchantville School District is a community public school district that serves students in pre-kindergarten through eighth grade from Merchantville, in Camden County, New Jersey, United States.\n\nAs of the 2013-14 school year, the district's one school had an enrollment of 378 students and 28.7 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 13.2:1.\n\nThe district is classified by the New Jersey Department of Education as being in District Factor Group \"DE\", the fifth-highest of eight groupings. District Factor Groups organize districts statewide to allow comparison by common socioeconomic characteristics of the local districts. From lowest socioeconomic status to highest, the categories are A, B, CD, DE, FG, GH, I and J.\n\nStarting in September 2015, for ninth through twelfth grades, students from Merchantville will start attending Haddon Heights High School as part of a new sending/receiving relationship with the Haddon Heights School District that was approved by the Commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Education, joining students from Barrington and Lawnside, who already attend the Haddon Heights school. Students already in high school before 2015 will continue to attend Pennsauken High School until their graduation, as part of a longstanding sending/receiving relationship with the Pennsauken Public Schools in Pennsauken Township. Merchantville students had attended Pennsauken High School since the 1972 school year, after Merchantville High School was shut down.\n\n\nStarting in 1929, the district had its own high school, Merchantville High School, for students of both the borough and the neighboring communities of Cherry Hill and Pennsauken Township, as well as Maple Shade in Burlington County. But with the loss of Maple Shade students to the new Maple Shade High School in 1972, Merchantville closed its high school after the end of the 1971-72 school year and started sending its students to Pennsauken High School for grades nine through twelve.\n\nCore members of the district's administration are:\n\n", "id": "7727036", "categories": ["New Jersey District Factor Group DE", "Merchantville, New Jersey"], "title": "Merchantville School District"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727057", "text": "Fred Ellis (cartoonist)\n\nFred C. Ellis (1885–1965) was an American editorial cartoonist. He is best remembered as one of the leading radical artists of the 1920s and 1930s as an artist for various publications of the Communist Party, USA (CPUSA), including stints on the staff of the CPUSA's daily newspaper.\n\nFred Ellis was born in Chicago, Illinois in 1885. He left school after eighth grade to take a job as an office boy for Frank Lloyd Wright. He worked later in an engraving shop and an ice cream factory before becoming a \"trucker\" at a meat factory, transporting prepared meat from refrigerators to railway cars for shipment around the country.\n\nIn 1905, the 20-year-old Ellis was among 20,000 Chicago packinghouse workers who went out on strike, with the truckers seeking a pay raise from the $1.98 the workers were then averaging per 12-hour day. The strike proved to be a failure, ended by the economic pressure exerted through the hiring of strikebreakers, and Ellis and his mates ultimately returned to work only to see their pay cut further.\n\nDespite the poor rate of pay, Ellis nevertheless managed to save $100 over a three-year period, which he chose to invest in his education. Having a proclivity for drawing, Ellis enrolled in the Chicago Academy of Fine Arts where he studied art for two months, quitting after his finances were depleted.\n\nAfter leaving school Ellis became a sign painter, specializing in the painting of large outdoor signs. He ultimately worked for 21 years at this trade.\n\nIn 1919, while working as a sign painter for the General Outdoor Advertising Company, Ellis slipped and fell five stories from a scaffold outside of a Chicago building, breaking 32 bones when he hit the asphalt below. Ellis's convalescence proved to be extensive, including six weeks in the hospital followed by two years during which he was forced to use crutches and a cane. During this period of recovery, Ellis became familiar with a new weekly magazine published by the Chicago Federation of Labor called \"The New Majority\" — a publication which reprinted radical drawings by such leading political artists of the day as Art Young and Boardman Robinson. The injured sign painter began to work as a cartoonist, submitting his first political art to \"The New Majority.\"\n\nProminent communist labor leader William Z. Foster was the circulation manager of \"The New Majority\" at this time, and it was through him that Ellis made contact with the Workers Party of America, which he joined in 1924. Ellis drew extensively for the Communist movement from 1923 onward, contributing material to \"The Daily Worker.\" \"The Liberator,\" the \"Labor Herald,\" and other publications.\n\nIn 1927, Ellis moved to New York City to become staff cartoonist of the Workers (Communist) Party's official newspaper, \"The Daily Worker.\"\n\nFrom 1930 to 1936, Ellis lived and worked in Berlin and Moscow, where he drew for \"Pravda,\" \"Izvestiya,\" and the English-language \"Moscow Daily News.\"\n\nIn 1936 he returned to his job at the \"Daily Worker\" and taught at the American Artists School, a progressive independent art school directed by Harry Gottlieb whose board included many prominent left wing artists such as William Gropper as well as photographer Margaret Bourke-White.\n\nEllis retired in 1955.\n\nFred Ellis died in 1965.\n\nEllis's papers are held by Syracuse University in Syracuse, New York. The material includes more than 250 original cartoons, a sketchbook with more than 200 sketches, letters, newspaper clippings, photographs, and other material.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7727057", "categories": ["1885 births", "Artists from Chicago", "1965 deaths", "American editorial cartoonists", "American communists", "American Marxists", "Illinois socialists", "Members of the Communist Party USA", "American socialists"], "title": "Fred Ellis (cartoonist)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727090", "text": "Institute of Leadership and Management\n\nThe Institute of Leadership & Management is a professional membership body for leaders and managers around the world. Its mission is to inspire great leadership - everywhere.\n\nMembership of The Institute of Leadership & Management is open to leaders and managers of all levels, including those with no practical experience. There is trial membership — for individuals taking ILM qualifications. Some organisations that are involved with personal development, such as The Scout Association also highlight the availability of membership.\n\nFive grades of membership entitle the member to use post-nominal letters - Affiliate (AInstLM), Associate Member (AMInstLM), Member (MInstLM), Fellow (FInstLM) and Companion (CInstLM). The highest grade is Companionship — for senior executives selected by the Institute. Membership is validated by an official membership certificate.\n\nMembers are offered access a range of services to help with their Continuous professional development (CPD), although this isn't mandatory, including access to e-books, electronic learning materials, and paid-for events.\n\nThe Institute of Leadership & Management carries out research into leadership and management in practice, providing insights for managers and leaders and publishing findings in white papers, research reports and journals. The institute takes a collaborative approach, preferring to work with like-minded individuals and organisations in defining research topics and undertaking research activity.\n\nThe Institute of Leadership & Management offers a wide range of learning resources to support the continuous professional development of leaders and managers in a variety of organisations and settings.\n\nDeveloped over many years of research and insight into best practice, a range of regulated qualifications are now delivered under the distinct 'ILM' brand by the City & Guilds Group.\n\nThese ILM qualifications are practically based, designed to complement the individual’s role at work. Aligned to the UK’s Qualifications and Credit Framework (QCF), ILM qualifications begin at level 2, such as the ILM Award in Team Leading, and continue up to level 7, such as the ILM Diploma in Strategic Leadership and Executive Management. ILM also offers NVQs; these include the Level 5 NVQ in Management. Other specialist qualifications cover skills in volunteer management, business start-up, coaching, and personnel management. All ILM qualifications have been accredited by the Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation (Ofqual).\n\n\"Edge\" is the Institute's quarterly in-house magazine, looking at the latest leadership and management issues. It is published by LID Publishing. The magazine is distributed to members as part of a range of benefits and learning resources.\n\nThe Institute of Supervision and Management (ISM) was founded in 1947 by J.K. Evans M.B.E. The Institute of Leadership & Management was formed in November 2001 through the merger of the Institute of Supervision and Management (ISM) and the National Examining Board for Supervision and Management (NEBS).\n\nThe Institute is a charity registered in England, Wales and Scotland, with its head office in Tamworth, Staffordshire and members in countries across the world.\n\n", "id": "7727090", "categories": ["Organisations based in Staffordshire", "Business and finance professional associations", "Organizations established in 1947", "2001 establishments in the United Kingdom", "Professional associations based in the United Kingdom"], "title": "Institute of Leadership and Management"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727097", "text": "Emeric Bergeaud\n\nEmeric Bergeaud (1818–1858) was a Haitian novelist. His best-known work, \"Stella\", was the first Haitian novel. Born in Cayes, he served as Secretary to Jerome Maximilien Borgella and later participated in a revolt against President Soulouque. Exiled to Saint Thomas, it was there that he wrote the novel \"Stella.\" Marlene Daut has recently revealed in \"Tropics of Haiti: Race and the Literary History of the Haitian Revolution in the Atlantic World, 1789-1865\", that three Haitian journalists and writers from the early twentieth-century, Ulrick Duvivier, Frédéric Marcelin, and Louis Morpeau, suspected or more likely erroneously believed that \"Stella\" was actually authored by Bergeaud's wife (413-14, ftn. 2). At the present time, there is no other known evidence that supports the claims of Duvivier, Marcelin, and Morpeau.\n\n\n", "id": "7727097", "categories": ["19th-century Haitian novelists", "1818 births", "1858 deaths", "Haitian male novelists", "19th-century male writers"], "title": "Emeric Bergeaud"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727099", "text": "Literary adaptation\n\nLiterary adaptation is the adapting of a literary source (e.g. a novel, short story, poem) to another genre or medium, such as a film, stage play, or video game. It can also involve adapting the same literary work in the same genre or medium just for different purposes, e.g. to work with a smaller cast, in a smaller venue (or on the road), or for a different demographic group (such as adapting a story for children). Sometimes the editing of these works without the approval of the author can lead to a court case.\n\nIt also appeals because it obviously works as a story; it has interesting characters, who say and do interesting things. This is particularly important when adapting to a dramatic work, e.g. film, stage play, teleplay, as dramatic writing is some of the most difficult. To get an original story to function well on all the necessary dimensions—concept, character, story, dialogue, and action—is an extremely rare event performed by a rare talent.\n\nPerhaps most importantly, especially for producers of the screen and stage, an adapted work is more bankable; it represents considerably less risk to investors, and poses the possibilities of huge financial gains. This is because:\n\nWorks of literature have been adapted for film from the dawn of the industry. Some of the earliest examples come from the work of Georges Méliès, who pioneered many film techniques. In 1899, he released two adaptations—\"Cinderella\" based on the Brothers Grimm story of the same name and \"King John\", the first known film to be based on the works of Shakespeare. The 1900 film \"Sherlock Holmes Baffled\", directed by Arthur Marvin featured Arthur Conan Doyle's detective character Sherlock Holmes intruding upon a pseudo-supernatural burglary. The film, considered the first detective movie, ran for only 30 seconds and was originally intended to be shown in hand-cranked Mutoscope machines.\n\nMéliès' 1902 original science-fiction feature \"A Trip to the Moon\" was based loosely on two popular novels of the time: Jules Verne's \"From the Earth to the Moon\" and H. G. Wells' \"The First Men in the Moon\". The first of many adaptations of the Brothers Grimm tale \"Snow White\" was released in 1902 while the earliest surviving copy is the 1916 version. 1903 saw the release of \"Alice in Wonderland\" directed by Cecil Hepworth and Percy Stow, the first movie adaptation of Lewis Carroll's children's book \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\".\n\nThe first feature-length film to be shot entirely in Hollywood was Cecil B. DeMille's first assignment, \"The Squaw Man\", in 1914, which was the first of three movie versions (all directed by DeMille) based on Edwin Milton Royle's play of the same name. Since the early days of the genre, major films have been largely adapted:\nThe most celebrated of the early adaptations is Erich von Stroheim's \"Greed\", a 1924 adaptation of the 1899 novel \"McTeague\" by naturalist writer Frank Norris. The director intended to film every aspect of the novel in great detail, resulting in a 9½-hour epic feature. At studio insistence, the film was cut down to two hours and was considered a flop upon its theatrical release. It has since been restored to just over four hours and is considered one of the greatest films ever made. \n\nOne book that has been adapted very frequently (in one form or another) is Charles Dickens' Christmas story \"A Christmas Carol\", which has around 20 film adaptations to date.\n\nPlagiarism occurs in every genre, and throughout history, but such literary rights violations can be challenged in court. In the case of Hollywood films, judgments for the plaintiff can run into the millions of dollars, but these have typically been for outright theft of a screenplay idea rather than for fraudulent adaptations (see \"Buchwald v. Paramount\").\n\nBecause of the importance of telling a story with a limited number of characters, short stories often make better sources for adaptable material than do novels. For the stage, in addition, theater audiences tend to accept and prefer works of a more conceptual, thought-based nature, meaning their preferences need to be considered when selecting a work for adaptation, but also when determining how best to adapt it. The stage imposes physical limits of size and technology. Not every illusion that can be made to appear real on the movie screen can be made to appear so on stage.\n\n", "id": "7727099", "categories": ["Literature", "Works based on works", "Translation studies", "Film"], "title": "Literary adaptation"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727103", "text": "Self-build\n\nSelf-build is the practice of creating an individual home for oneself through a variety of different methods. The self-builder's input into this process varies from doing the actual building work to contracting out all the work to an architect or building package company.\n\nPeople build individual homes for all sorts of reasons. An important reason, above all in poor countries, is that they might not be able to afford their housing on the open market. Another motivation of self-builders can be the wish to create something tailored to their family's requirements and/or their lifestyle.\n\nSelf-builders create their homes through a variety of methods – and seldom build it entirely themselves. In rich countries a lot of them employ an architect to come up with the design of the new home and contract a builder to construct it; others use so-called 'package' companies to provide a one-stop solution. Many others find themselves managing building sites and dealing directly with planners, tradespeople and materials suppliers.\n\nSelf-build in its wider meaning is an ordinary practice in many developing countries. It is also common among certain religious communities like The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) or subcultures such as 'hippies'. Usually ecovillages are realised through self building techniques. In most developed countries self-build is regulated by the public administration, while in developing countries self-build is sometimes supported by NGOs or international organisations like, for instance, United Nations Volunteers.\n\nIn 2010 the World Bank estimated that self-build housing (also described as \"self-help\" or \"self-provided\" housing) was supplying more than 95% of Ghana's total housing stock, and that it was contributing with around 300 billion USDs per annum to the national economy. Self-build is not just practised by the poorer households but also by middle-income citizens. Most of Ghana's post-colonials governments like Nkrumah's have been implementing state-run housing schemes because their socialist-oriented agendas avoided to promote self-help housing in order not to boost private ownership by individuals or families. In 2009 the Government of Ghana, in its \"Draft National Shelter Policy\", recognized the importance of self-help and self-build housing and other non-conventional approaches to housing, even if not as a priority.\n\nIn Italy self-build has been, fore some decades after World War II, a common practice among the lower class, widely used in squatting areas like the \"Borgate Romane\" (Rome) or the suburbs in the north of Naples and around Palermo. Nowadays self-build is rather used as a partial support to house building where the construction of the structural parts (foundation, walls, roof ...) is committed to professionals companies.\nAnother application field for self-build in Italy is the support to disadvantaged ethnic groups like Sinti. In some middle-sized cities like Ravenna and Padova masonry classes and build materials were offered to people living in gypsies equipped areas in order to help them to improve their huts.\nIn the early 1980s self-build also entered the Italian university programmes: in the architecture faculty of Politecnico di Torino Giorgio Ceragioli introduced in his course of Architectural technology the \"Laboratorio tecnologico di autocostruzione\" (Latec), a laboratory where students were allowed to practice several self-build techniques.\n\nIn Mexico a very rapid urbanization occurred between 1940s and 1970s attracting lots of people from rural areas. During this period government programmes were not able to ensure enough housing and also the private production was unattractive due the low wages of a large part of the population. Is estimated that even after the creation of two national housing funds, \"FONHAPO\" and \"INFONAVIT\", just 1/5 of the effective demand was satisfied. In this difficult situation, many irregular settlements developed, and some researcher and politician started to sustain that supporting and improving self-build processes rather to fight them was a possible solution to the popular housing issue. So during 1970s public policy started to support low-income self-builder offering them services, core units and in some cases land-ownership regularization. These schemes were criticised by orthodox Marxists, persuaded that ensuring proper housing to people was a government duty and that lack of houses was a structural product of capitalism. Anyway, self-built accommodation became the most common form of housing and, in Mexico city area, it increased from 14% in 1952 to 60% in 1990. Later on, the public policy priority shifted from house production to enhancement of real-estate market, local infrastructures and improvement of existing houses.\n\nThe term 'self build' is specifically used in the UK and Ireland when an individual obtains a building plot and then builds their own home on that plot. The term doesn't necessarily refer to completing the work yourself - more usually, self-build is defined as the act of 'commissioning' a bespoke home.\n\nIt's estimated that there are between 10,000 and 20,000 self builds in the UK every year. This is less than 10% of all the homes built annually but may constitute as much as 1 in 3 new detached homes built in the UK. Over the years, self-builders have been at the forefront of advances in-house design and technology, being responsible for the dramatic uptake in recent years in eco-features such as solar power and heat pumps; underfloor heating; open plan design and smart home technology. These are features that take many years to filter through to commercial housing developments. There is also an increasing drive for people to self-build overseas, either as investments, holiday homes, retirement homes or relocation.\n\nIndividual houses can take all forms from the traditional to the radically modern, and the term is also used to refer to people who create individual homes out of old buildings.\n\nThe main impediment to the UK self-build market is the shortage of building plots available to the self-builder, high land prices and the restrictive planning regime. in 2008 the National Self Build Association (NaSBA) was established to order to put pressure on relevant bodies, including the Government, to remedy this situation. The founding members of NaSBA are Bath and District Self Build Association, Build It magazine, BuildStore, Potton/Kingspan, Architecture Verte and Ecomotive.\nThe Association changed its name to the National Custom & Self Build Association (NaCSBA) in July 2014 - borne out of a desire to officially welcome the custom build community.\n\nChecklist to self build\n\n\n\nSelf Build Resources\nOther Countries\nBuilding Companies\n", "id": "7727103", "categories": ["Building", "DIY culture"], "title": "Self-build"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727109", "text": "Wootton, Vale of White Horse\n\nWootton is a village and civil parish in the Vale of White Horse about north-west of Abingdon. It was part of Berkshire until the 1974 boundary changes transferred it to Oxfordshire. The parish of Wootton includes the hamlets of Henwood and Lamborough Hill and the western part of Boars Hill. The 2011 Census recorded the parish's population as 2,709.\n\nThe Church of England parish church of Saint Peter was built in the 14th century, from which time the Decorated Gothic east window of the chancel survives. In the 15th century the nave was rebuilt with Perpendicular Gothic windows. The south door and porch are 16th century and the chancel arch may have been rebuilt in the 18th century.\n\nUntil the 19th century Wootton was part of the parish of Cumnor. The first vicar of Wootton was appointed in 1885. Wootton was united in a single benefice with St. Helen's, Dry Sandford in 2000.\n\nThe sculptor Oscar Nemon (1906–85) and his son Falcon Stuart (1941–2002) are buried in St Peter's churchyard.\n\nThe village has a Church of England primary school.\n\nThe village has a recently refurbished business park and two new housing estates. There are a few shops in Wootton, including two convenience stores, a pharmacy, and a chip shop. There is also a dentist, a bathroom shop, a carpet shop and Sign-a-Rama. Wootton's social amenities include the Bystander public house, and a community centre where various activities take place, such as local school fêtes and a local bingo.\n\nThe post office used to be next to the fish and chip shop but closed in September 2008. Now the post office is inside the Co-Operative store.\n\nWootton and Dry Sandford Football Club is based in the village. It was founded in 1946 and currently plays in Division 1 of the North Berks Football League. It is the current holder of the North Berks Cup.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7727109", "categories": ["Civil parishes in Oxfordshire"], "title": "Wootton, Vale of White Horse"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727113", "text": "Cosmic Camouflage\n\nCosmic Camouflage is a video game for the BBC Micro and Acorn Electron. It was released in 1988 as the sequel to Acornsoft's \"Meteors\". Both games are clones of the 1979 Atari arcade game \"Asteroids\".\n\nThe game was only available on the compilation \"Play It Again Sam 4\", along with \"Frak!\", \"Spellbinder\" and either \"Grand Prix Construction Set\" (BBC) or \"Guardian\" (Electron).\n\nThe player controls a spaceship in order to avoid and destroy asteroids. The controls are rotate, thrust and fire. It expands on \"Meteors\" by introducing different types of asteroids and enemies, and a limited use camouflage function that allows the player to pass through asteroids and enemies.\n\n\"Electron User\" praised the game calling it a \"radically improved\" game compared to its predecessor, concluding \"\"Cosmic Camouflage\" is a novel implementation of a classic, and if you enjoyed \"Meteors\" you'll love this upgrade\". Although individual games weren't given a score, the compilation overall was given a score of 9/10 and awarded \"Golden Game\" status.\n", "id": "7727113", "categories": ["Superior Software games", "Europe-exclusive video games", "Video game clones", "1988 video games", "BBC Micro and Acorn Electron-only games", "BBC Micro and Acorn Electron games"], "title": "Cosmic Camouflage"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727132", "text": "Ensi (Sumerian)\n\nEnsi (cuneiform: , \"lord of the plowland\"; Emesal dialect: \"umunsik\"; ) was a Sumerian title designating the ruler or prince of a city-state. Originally it may have designated an independent ruler, but in later periods the title presupposed subordinance to a lugal.\n\nFor the Early Dynastic Period (about 2800–2350 BCE), the meaning of the titles en, ensi and lugal cannot be differentiated clearly: see lugal, ensi and en for details. Ensí may have originally been a designation of the ruler restricted to Lagash and Umma. The \"ensi\" was considered a representative of the city-state's patron deity. In later periods, an ensí was normally seen as subordinate to a lugal. Nevertheless, even the powerful rulers of the Second Dynasty of Lagash (c. 2100 BCE) such as Gudea were satisfied with the title ensí.\n\nDuring the Third Dynasty of Ur (about 2100–2000 BCE) énsi referred to the provincial governors of the kingdom. These exercised great powers in terms of government, tax revenue and jurisdiction, but they were supervised, installed, and dismissed by the lugal of Ur. Although the office could be inherited, all ensí had to be endorsed by the lugal. No independent foreign policy or warfare was allowed.\n\nIn the city-state of Assur, the hereditary ruler bore the Akkadian language version of the title ensí, while the patron deity was regarded as \"šarrum\" \"king\".\n\nThey held most political power in Sumerian city-states during the Uruk period (c.4100-2900 BCE).\n", "id": "7727132", "categories": ["Sumerian titles"], "title": "Ensi (Sumerian)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727149", "text": "Separated shoulder\n\nA separated shoulder, also known as acromioclavicular joint injury, is a common injury to the acromioclavicular joint. The AC joint is located at the outer end of the clavicle where it attaches to the acromion of the scapula. Symptoms include pain which may make it difficult to move the shoulder and often a deformity.\nIt is most commonly due to a fall onto the front and upper part of the shoulder when the arm is by the side. They are classified as type I, II, III, IV, V, or VI with the higher the number the more severe the injury. Diagnosis is typically based on physical examination and X-rays. In type I and II injuries there is minimal deformity while in a type III injury the deformity resolves upon lifting the arm upwards. In type IV, V, and VI the deformity does not resolve with lifting the arm.\nGenerally types I and II are treated without surgery, while type III may be treated with or without surgery, and types IV, V, and VI are treated with surgery. For type I and II treatment is usually with a sling and pain medications for a week or two. In type III injuries surgery is generally only done if symptoms remain following treatment without surgery.\nA separated shoulder is a common injury among those involved in sports, especially contact sports. It makes up about half of shoulder injuries among those who play hockey, football, and rugby. Those affected are typically 20 to 30 years old. Males are more often affected than females. The injury was initially classified in 1967 with the current classification from 1984.\n\nSeparated shoulders often occur in people who participate in sports such as football, soccer, horseback riding, hockey, lacrosse, parkour, combat sports, rowing, rugby, snowboarding, skateboarding, crack the whip, cycling, roller derby and wrestling. The separation is classified into 6 types, with 1 through 3 increasing in severity, and 4 through 6 being the most severe. The most common mechanism of injury is a fall on the tip of the shoulder or also a fall on an outstretched hand. In falls where the force is transmitted indirectly, often only the acromioclavicular ligament is affected, and the coracoclavicular ligaments remain unharmed. In ice hockey, the separation is sometimes due to a lateral force, as when one gets forcefully checked into the side of the rink.\n\nThe acromion of the scapula is connected to the clavicle by the superior acromioclavicular ligament. The coracoclavicular ligaments connect the clavicle to the coracoid process. The two ligaments that form the coracoclavicular ligaments are the trapezoid and conoid ligaments. These three ligaments add support to the shoulder joint.\n\nThere are four types of soft tissue disruptions that may cause acromioclavicular separation:\n\n\nDiagnosis is based on physical examination and an x-ray. A physical examination can identify point tenderness, pain at the AC joint with cross-arm adduction, and pain relief with an injection of a local anesthetic. The cross-arm adduction will produce pain specifically at the AC joint and will be done by elevating the arm to a 90° angle, flexing the elbow to a 90° angle, and adducting the arm across the chest. The pain in the shoulder is hard to pinpoint of the innervation of the AC joint and the glenohumeral joint. An injury to the AC joint will result in pain over the AC joint, in the anterolateral neck and in the region in the anterolateral deltoid.\n\nX-ray indicates a separated shoulder when the acromioclavicular joint space is widened (it is normally 5 to 8 mm).\n\nIt can be classified into 6 types.\n\nA Type I AC separation involves direct trauma to the shoulder causing the injury to ligaments that form the joint, but no severe tearing or fracture. It is commonly referred to as a sprain.\n\nA Type II AC separation involves complete tearing of the acromioclavicular ligament, as well as a partial tear of the coracoclavicular ligaments. This often causes a noticeable bump on the shoulder. This bump is permanent. The clavicle is unstable to direct stress examination. On radiographs, the lateral end of the clavicle may be slightly elevated by pressing on the sternal aspect of the clavicle forcing the acromial end down, and by releasing, it may pop back up eliciting a piano key sign due to the tearing of the AC. Severe pain and loss of movement are common.\n\nIn a Type III AC separation both acromioclavicular and coracoclavicular ligaments are torn without significant disruption of the deltoid or trapezial fascia. A significant bump, resulting in some shoulder deformity, is formed by the lateral end of the clavicle. This bump, caused by the clavicle's dislocation, is permanent. The clavicle can be moved in and out of place on the shoulder. A radiographic examination, will show the results as abnormal. Pain with motion can be severe.\n\nThis is a type III injury with avulsion of the coracoclavicular ligament from the clavicle, with the distal clavicle displaced posteriorly into or through the trapezius and may tent the posterior skin. A displaced clavicle is easily seen on a radiograph. It is important to evaluate the sternoclavicular joint also, because there can be an anterior dislocation of the sternoclavicular joint and posterior dislocation of the AC joint. This injury is generally acknowledged to require surgery.\n\nThis is a more severe form of a type III injury, with the trapezial and deltoid fascia stripped off of the acromion as well as the clavicle. This is type III but with exaggeration of the vertical displacement of the clavicle from the scapula. Distinguishing between Type III and Type V separations based on radiographs is difficult and often unreliable between surgeons. Type V is manifested by a 2- to 3-fold increase in the coracoclavicular distance. The shoulder manifests as a severe droop, secondary to downward displacement of the scapula and humerus due to loss of the clavicular strut. This injury generally requires surgery.\n\nThis is type III with inferior dislocation of the distal end of the clavicle below the coracoid. This injury is associated with severe trauma and frequently accompanied by multiple other injuries. The mechanism is thought to be severe hyperabduction and external rotation of the arm, combined with retraction of the scapula. The distal clavicle is found in 2 orientations, either subacromial or subcoracoid. With the subcoracoid dislocation, the clavicle becomes lodged behind the intact conjoined tendon. The posterior superior AC ligaments, which often remains attached to the acromion, get displaced into the AC interval, making anatomic reduction difficult. The tissue needs to be surgically cleared and then reattached after reduction. Most patients with type VI injuries have paresthesia that resolves after relocation of the clavicle It is extremely rare and generally only involved with motor vehicle collisions. This requires surgery.\nTreatment of a separated shoulder depends on the severity of the injury. When beginning treatment, the first steps should be to control inflammation, and to rest and ice the joint. Anti-inflammatories such as Advil or Motrin may also relieve pain and inflammation. The joint should be iced every four hours for fifteen minutes at a time. One can wear a sling until the pain subsides; then simple exercises can be started.\n\nType I and type II shoulder separation are the most common types of separated and rarely need surgery. However, the risk of arthritis with type II separations is greatly increased. If it becomes severe, the Mumford procedure or distal clavicle excision can be performed.\n\nMost non-surgical treatment options include physical therapy to build up the muscles and help stabilize the joint. Literature regarding long-term follow-up after surgical repair of type III injuries is scarce, and those treated nonoperatively generally do quite well.\nMany studies \nhave come to the conclusion that non-surgical treatment is as good as or better than surgical treatment, or that anything attained because of surgery is quite limited. It appears that after a while, the body \"remodels\" the joint, either expanding the distal clavicle or causing it to atrophy. There may also be the potential that surgical repair may be less painful in the long run.\n\nOnce the pain has eased, range-of-motion exercises can be started followed by a strength training program. The strength training will include strengthening of the rotator cuff, and shoulder blade muscles. With most cases the pain goes away after three weeks. Although full recovery can take up to six weeks for type II and up to twelve weeks for type III.\n\nThose who do have a separated shoulder will most often return to having full function, although some may have continued pain in the area of the AC joint. With the continued pain there are some things that maybe causing it. It may be due to an abnormal contact between the bone ends when the joint is in motion, the development of arthritis, or an injury to a piece of the cushioning cartilage that is found between the bone ends of this joint.\n\nType IV, V, and VI shoulder separations are very uncommon but always require surgery. There is some debate among orthopedic surgeons, however, about the treatment of type III shoulder separation. Many with type III shoulder separation who do not undergo surgical treatment recover just as well as those who do receive it, and avoid the added risks that surgery may present. Those who opt out of surgery also have faster recovery times and are able to return to work or sports sooner. Some studies suggest early surgical treatment of type III separation may benefit laborers and athletes who perform overhead motions. The potential benefit of surgical treatment for type III remains unproven.\n\nThere have been many surgeries described to fix complete acromioclavicular separations, including recently arthroscopic. There is no consensus on which surgery is best. Several surgeries have been described with pins or hooks. Another surgery performs muscle transfer.\n\nA common surgery is some form of Modified Weaver-Dunn procedure, which involves cutting off the end of the clavicle portion, partially sacrificing the coracoacromial ligament and suturing the displaced acromial end to the lateral aspect of the clavicle for stabilization, then often some form of additional support is introduced to replace the coracoclavicular ligament(s). Variations of this support includes grafting of tendons from the leg. or the use of synthetic sutures or suture anchors Other surgeries have used a Rockwood screw that is inserted initially and then removed after 12 weeks. Physical therapy is always recommended after surgery, and most patients get flexibility back, although possibly somewhat limited.\n\nAfter one does have surgery, a sling should be worn to support and protect the shoulder for a few days. For the first couple physical therapy visits, the treatment will focus on controlling the pain and swelling. Type of treatment can include, ice and electrical stimulation, massage, or other hand on treatment to help ease the pain and muscle spasm. After about four weeks range of motion exercises can be started. Passive exercises are done which the shoulder joint is moved but the muscles stay relaxed. After about six to eight weeks active therapy is started. Such exercises can include isometric strengthening which works the muscles without straining the healing of the joint. After about three months, more active strengthening will be incorporated which focus on improving the strength and control of the rotator cuff muscles and the muscles around the shoulder blade. The exercises that the therapist gives the patient to be done at home should be done to be able to get a better recovery in the long run.\n\nSome physical therapy exercises that can be performed to help rehab the shoulder are:\nWhile standing and using a theraband you can perform \nY, T, and I’s, \nInternal shoulder rotation, \nExternal shoulder rotation, \nShoulder extensions, and \nScapula squeezes \nWhile lying on your side you can perform internal rotation and external rotation with a light weight. The light weight can be any type of object such as a 1-5 lb dumbbell weight, or a soup can. Also you can foam roll the pectorals. With the foam roller you can also lie on your back on top of it and do snow angels.\n\n", "id": "7727149", "categories": ["Shoulder", "Dislocations, sprains and strains"], "title": "Separated shoulder"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727159", "text": "Inner-platform effect\n\nThe inner-platform effect is the tendency of software architects to create a system so customizable as to become a replica, and often a poor replica, of the software development platform they are using. This is generally inefficient and such systems are often considered to be examples of an anti-pattern.\n\nExamples are visible in plugin-based software such as some text editors and web browsers which often have developers create plugins that recreate software that would normally run on top of the operating system itself. The Firefox add-on mechanism has been used to develop a number of FTP clients and file browsers, which effectively replicate some of the features of the operating system, albeit on a more restricted platform.\n\nIn the database world, developers are sometimes tempted to bypass the RDBMS, for example by storing everything in one big table with three columns labelled entity ID, key, and value. While this entity-attribute-value model allows the developer to break out from the structure imposed by an SQL database, it loses out on all the benefits, since all of the work that could be done efficiently by the RDBMS is forced onto the application instead. Queries become much more convoluted, the indexes and query optimizer can no longer work effectively, and data validity constraints are not enforced. Performance and maintainability can be extremely poor.\n\nA similar temptation exists for XML, where developers sometimes favor generic element names and use attributes to store meaningful information. For example, every element might be named \"item\" and have attributes \"type\" and \"value\". This practice requires joins across multiple attributes in order to extract meaning. As a result, XPath expressions are more convoluted, evaluation is less efficient, and structural validation provides little benefit.\n\nAnother example is the phenomenon of web desktops, where a whole desktop environment—often including a web browser—runs inside a browser (which itself typically runs within the desktop environment provided by the operating system). A desktop within a desktop can be unusually awkward for the user, and hence this is generally only done to run programs that cannot easily be deployed on end user systems, or by hiding the outer desktop away.\n\nIt is normal for software developers to create a library of custom functions that relate to their specific project. The inner-platform effect occurs when this library expands to include general purpose functions that duplicate functionality already available as part of the programming language or platform. Since each of these new functions will generally call a number of the original functions, they tend to be slower, and if poorly coded, less reliable as well.\n\nOn the other hand, such functions are often created to present a simpler (and often more portable) abstraction layer on top of lower level services that either have an awkward interface, are too complex, non-portable or insufficiently portable, or simply a poor match for higher level application code.\n\nAn inner platform can be useful for portability and privilege separation reasons—in other words, so that the same application can run on a wide variety of outer platforms without affecting anything outside a sandbox managed by the inner platform. For example, Sun Microsystems designed the Java platform to meet both of these goals.\n\n\n", "id": "7727159", "categories": [], "title": "Inner-platform effect"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727175", "text": "Suraj Singh Memorial College\n\nSuraj Singh Memorial College is a graduate-level college in Kanke Road. It is a constituent college of Ranchi University in Ranchi, Jharkhand, India.\n\nWith the industrialization of Ranchi City, the demand for quality education, especially in the field of higher education, increased in the mid sixties. There were a few colleges and large number of economically backward young boys and girls willing to undertake higher education. In this backdrop, a few people thought of opening a college. They approached a philanthropist of Ranchi city for their help and guidance.\n\nIn 1972, Suraj Singh Memorial College (SSM College) came into existence. The then Chief Minister of Bihar, Kedar Nath Pandey inaugurated the college and it started functioning in the space provided by a school situated in Bariatu Road, Ranchi. The college which was affiliated to Ranchi University, Ranchi was made a constituent unit in the year 1978. The catchment area of this college is the semi–urban fringes of Ranchi City. It also attracts students from other districts of Jharkhand and other states of the country. The college is imparting education up to degree level in all the three faculties, viz., Arts, science and Commerce. The college also offers Honours level courses in many subjects of Arts Commerce and Science.\n\nThe college is planning for assessment and accreditation by the NAAC and preparation of the Self Assessment Report is under progress.\n\nSSM College teaches at Intermediate and Degree level. The students of science have been successful in CBSE Medical examination, engineering examinations and several other competitive examinations conducted or organised by the State or Central Government Organizations.\n\nThe teachers have been extending consultancy to the government and non-government organizations in the fields of primary education and higher education.\n\n\n", "id": "7727175", "categories": ["Universities and colleges in Jharkhand", "Universities and colleges in Ranchi", "Colleges affiliated to Ranchi University", "Educational institutions established in 1972"], "title": "Suraj Singh Memorial College"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727185", "text": "Wirklich alles!\n\nWirklich alles! is a live album from Christina Stürmer, released in 2005. It was recorded during a tour in Austria called \"Wirklich alles!\" during the fall of 2004, in promotion of her album \"Soll das wirklich alles sein\".\n\nIt was not as successful as her studio albums have been.\n\nThe album was certified Platinum in Austria.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7727185", "categories": ["2005 live albums", "Records by Starmania participants", "Polydor Records live albums", "Christina Stürmer albums"], "title": "Wirklich alles!"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727196", "text": "Clan Hannay\n\nClan Hannay is a Lowland Scottish clan.\n\nThe Hannays are from the ancient princedom of Galloway. The name appears to have originally been spelt \"Ahannay\" but its origin is uncertain. It could derive from the Scottish Gaelic \"O'Hannaidh\" or \"Ap Shenaeigh\".\n\nIn 1296 Gilbert de Hannethe appears on the Ragman Rolls submitting to Edward I of England. This could be the same Gilbert who acquired the lands of Sorbie. The Hannays were suspicious of Robert the Bruce's ambitions and instead supported the claim of John Balliol. Balliol was descended from the Celtic Princes of Galloway through his mother, Lady Devorgilla.\n\nIn the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries the Hannays extended their influence over the surrounding area including the building of Sorbie Tower which remained the seat of the Clan Chief until the seventeenth century.\n\nAt the beginning of the 17th century the Clan Hannay was locked in a deadly feud with the Clan Murray of Broughton. It resulted in the Hannays being outlawed. The consequences of this were that many Hannays emigrated to Ulster, where the name is still found in large numbers in County Antrim, County Down and County Armagh.\n\nPatrick Hannay had a distinguished military career and was patronised by Queen Elizabeth of Bohemia, daughter of James VI of Scotland and sister of Charles I of England. After the death of Queen Anne who was the wife of James VI in 1619 Patrick Hannay composed two eulogies and in return had many published on his own death, one of which said: 'Go on in virtue, aftertimes will tell, none but Hannay could have done so well'.\n\nPossibly the best known Hannay was James Hannay, the Dean of St Giles' in Edinburgh who had the claim to fame of being the target of Jenny Geddes' stool. In an infamous incident in 1637 the Dean had begun to read the new liturgy when with a cry of \"Thou false thief, dost thou say Mass at my lug?\" was heard and a stool came flying from the congregation, thrown by an incensed Jenny Geddes. The incident began a full-scale riot which took the town guard to control.\n\nSir Robert Hannay of Mochrum was created a Baronet of Nova Scotia In 1630. From the Sorbie roots the Hannays of Grennan, Knock, Garrie and Kingsmuir also evolved.\n\nIn 1582, Alexander Hannay, a younger son of the chief, Hannay of Sorbie, purchased the lands of Kirkdale which were in the Stewartry of Kirkcudbright. His son was John Hannay of Kirkdalewho established the line which is today recognised by the Lord Lyon King of Arms as the chief of the name and arms of Hannay.\n\nA younger son of Hannay of Kirkdale was Alexander Hannay who was a professional soldier, administrator and adventurer, who amassed a substantial personal fortune in 18th Century India, rising to the rank of colonel. His elder brother was Sir Samuel Hannay of Kirkdale who succeeded to the title and estates of his kinsman, Sir Robert Hannay of Mochrum, Baront. The next Baronet was Sir Samuel Hannay who entered the service of the Habsburg Emperors and built himself a mansion on his family lands. It is this mansion which is said to have provided the inspiration for Walter Scott's novel, \"Guy Mannering\". Sir Samuel died in 1841 and the estate passed to his sister, Mary, and from her to her nephew, William Ransford Hannay, from whom the present chief is descended.\n\nClan chief: Chief Ramsay William Rainsford Hannay Died 10 January 2004 – Gatehouse-of-Fleet, Scotland and was succeeded by his son, Dr. David R Hannay.\n\nIn 1965 the ancient clan seat, Sorbie Tower, was presented to the clan trust and a maintenance scheme was put in place.\n\n", "id": "7727196", "categories": [], "title": "Clan Hannay"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727200", "text": "Ebrahim Sadeghi\n\nEbrahim Sadeghi (, born February 4, 1979 in Karaj, Iran) is an Iranian football coach and retired player who played for Saipa for 17 years.\n\nSadeghi has been playing for Saipa since 2000. In 2010, Saipa Cultural and Athletic Corporation celebrated a testimonial ceremony for him because of \"his loyalty to the club\", calling him \"The Orange Loyal\". He was also gifted a Saipa Tiba.\n\nOn 13 December 2015, in a match against Esteghlal Ahvaz Sadeghi played his 400th league match for the club, becoming the only player in the history of the Persian Gulf Pro League to reach this feat. He retired on 4 May 2017 after playing 17 seasons at Saipa at the top flight.\n\nSadeghi joined Keshavarz at the age of thirteen and played at the club until 1995 where he was spotted by Persepolis and joined their academy. After three years at Persepolis he joined Moghavemat Tehran before settling at Saipa a year later.\n\nSadeghi graduated from the Saipa youth ranks and was signed to the club in 2000. He has played for Saipa for his entire. His good performances since 2006–07 season made big clubs to show some interest on him. In 2008 Sadeghi was nominated for Asian Footballer of the Year, but failed to win the award. He played in AFC Champions League for Saipa and continued to play for the club in 2008–09 season.\n\nHe made his first cap for Iran national football team in January 2007 in a friendly match against the UAE. He scored in his debut. He was selected among Iran's final squad participating in the 2007 Asian Cup.\nHe has been called up for 2010 FIFA World Cup Qualifying. Sadeghi played in West Asian Football Federation Championship 2008 and won the cup.\n\n\n\nIn April 2008, Sadeghi has been nominated for the 2008 Asian footballer of the year, as the sole Iranian player in the 21-player list of AFC.\n", "id": "7727200", "categories": ["2007 AFC Asian Cup players", "Iranian footballers", "Iran international footballers", "1979 births", "Living people", "People from Karaj", "Association football midfielders"], "title": "Ebrahim Sadeghi"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727229", "text": "Adrian Weale\n\nAdrian Weale (born 9 February 1964) is a British writer, journalist, illustrator and photographer of Welsh origin. He was educated at Latymer Upper School, University of York, Royal Military Academy Sandhurst and the Joint Services Command and Staff College.\n\nWeale was born in Knightsbridge, London. Prior to becoming a professional author, he served as an officer in the British Army Intelligence Corps. He was compulsorily mobilised for active service in Iraq in May 2003 and from July to December 2003 held the appointment of Deputy Governor of Dhi Qar province in southern Iraq, seconded from the staff of Multi-National Division (South-East) (Iraq) to the Coalition Provisional Authority. From September 2003 he supervised a number of democratic local elections in towns in Dhi Qar province – the first to be held in Iraq – as well as co-ordinating reconstruction projects and liaising with Coalition security forces. He was succeeded in this role – after an interregnum – by Rory Stewart.\n\nOne of his books, \"Renegades: Hitler's Englishmen\" gives a detailed account of British traitors and collaborators during World War II, including William Joyce, John Amery and the British Free Corps.\n\nWeale is a founding member of the British Armed Forces Federation (BAFF).\n\n", "id": "7727229", "categories": ["English writers", "Intelligence Corps officers", "Graduates of the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst", "People from Knightsbridge", "1964 births", "Living people", "English male journalists", "Alumni of the University of York", "English photographers", "English illustrators"], "title": "Adrian Weale"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727244", "text": "Shire of Wandering\n\nThe Shire of Wandering is a local government area in the Wheatbelt region of Western Australia, and, with a population of 318 as at the 2001 census, is one of the nation's smallest. It covers an area of generally to the east of Albany Highway about south-east of Perth, the state capital. The Shire's seat of government is the town of Wandering.\n\nThe Wandering Road District was gazetted on 6 October 1874 out of land previously managed by the Williams Road Board. On 1 July 1961, it became a shire following the enactment of the \"Local Government Act 1960\".\n\nThe Shire is undivided and is represented by seven councillors.\n\nFrom 1941 until the 2009 elections, it was divided into four wards as follows:\n\n\n", "id": "7727244", "categories": [], "title": "Shire of Wandering"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727252", "text": "The Best of Reba McEntire\n\nMercury Records released The Best of Reba McEntire in 1985 after McEntire had left the label for MCA. It includes two number one singles along with her more minor hits while on the label.\n", "id": "7727252", "categories": ["Reba McEntire compilation albums", "Albums produced by Jerry Kennedy", "1985 greatest hits albums"], "title": "The Best of Reba McEntire"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727260", "text": "Ultimo Mondo Cannibale (disambiguation)\n\nUltimo Mondo Cannibale (Last Cannibal World) may refer to:\n\n\nSee also:\n", "id": "7727260", "categories": [], "title": "Ultimo Mondo Cannibale (disambiguation)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727266", "text": "Thunderbird Stadium\n\nThunderbird Stadium is an outdoor stadium on the University Endowment Lands in British Columbia, Canada. It is located west of Vancouver's city limits, and is primarily used for soccer and football by the UBC Thunderbirds. It seats 3,500 in the main grandstand, plus grass seating for about 5,000 people on the west side and ends of the stadium, and by using the surrounding grass embankment the facility can accommodate up to 12,000 spectators.\n\nThe stadium was opened on October 7, 1967. It features 12 80-foot-high concrete support towers, all topped with concrete thunderbird statues created by renowned First Nations artist Bill Reid. Later renovations include the replacement of a few original benches with fold-down seating directly below the press box.\n\nThe facility is also used for Canadian Rugby international matches, and the B.C. High School Rugby Championships. In 2009, the stadium was used to host the Ireland national rugby union team playing against the Canada national rugby union team.\n\nSince 2006, the stadium has been used for Australian rules football matches, including the West Coast Challenge tournament, and in 2007 as the venue for Canada's international games against the United States and Japan which drew 2,500 spectators. In 2008, it became home to the Vancouver Cougars club.\n\nIn 2013, the Vancouver Nighthawks, a professional ultimate team competing in Major League Ultimate, became tenants of Thunderbird Stadium. A total of five home games were played at Thunderbird Stadium for both the team and the league's inaugural season. The team ceased operation when the Major League Ultimate (MLU) ceased all operations on December 21, 2016.\n\nFrom 2015-2017, the USL soccer team, Whitecaps FC 2 (part of the Vancouver Whitecaps FC) played their home games at the stadium.\n\nIn June 2015, a Canadian Football League preseason game was to be held at the stadium on June 19, 2015, between the BC Lions and Edmonton Eskimos. This was due to Women's World Cup soccer being held at the Lions' usual home, BC Place.\n\nThe highest attendance for a Thunderbirds game at the stadium came on September 17, 2017 when UBC played their annual homecoming game in front of 9,542 fans, the third highest attendance for a Canada West football game in History \n\nThe facility was also used for cultural events and rock festivals. However, with the installation of artificial turf in 2010, concerts are no longer permitted.\n\nThunderbird Stadium hosted Ozzfest, Lilith Fair, Lollapalooza, Area:One Festival, Another Roadside Attraction and the Arts County Fair. It also held individual concerts including \"Midnight Oil/Hunters & Collectors/Art Bergmann\" in 1991. From 1995 it was used for the Vans Warped Tour. Up to 25,000 have attended concerts and/or festivals at the stadium.\n\n", "id": "7727266", "categories": ["USL Championship stadiums", "Rugby union stadiums in Canada", "Canadian football venues", "UBC Thunderbirds", "University sports venues in Canada", "Soccer venues in Canada", "Sports venues in Vancouver", "Ultimate (sport) venues", "Sports venues completed in 1967", "1967 establishments in British Columbia"], "title": "Thunderbird Stadium"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727274", "text": "American Artists School\n\nThe American Artists School was a progressive independent art school in New York City associated with socialism and the American Radical movement. \n\nThe school was founded in April 1936 at 131 West 14th Street. Its founders and board of directors included members and former members of the John Reed Club such as William Gropper, as well as contributors to the \"New Masses\" and the \"Daily Worker\", and notable artists such as Margaret Bourke-White and Louis Schanker. Harry Gottlieb was its first director. \n\nThe school emphasized art that was not only technically excellent but also alive to the social and class realities of the day, and stressed socially relevant content. A statement from the school's brochure of 1936 reads,\n\nThe school suffered from financial difficulties and closed in the spring of 1941; however, the significant role it played in integrating art and society in the thirties was recognized by both the liberal and radical press.\n\nStudents at the school included Jacob Lawrence, Theodoros Stamos, Lucille Wallenrod, Ad Reinhardt, Elaine de Kooning, Jack McLarty, Harry Shoulberg, Milton Resnick, and Fay Kleinman. \n\nTeachers included the sculptor Joseph Konzal, the cartoonist Fred Ellis, Philip Evergood, Milton Hebald, Sol Wilson, and Francis Criss. Russian-born Anton Refregier was a member of the faculty and at one point Chairman of the Board.\n\n", "id": "7727274", "categories": ["1936 establishments in New York (state)", "Art schools in New York City", "Educational institutions disestablished in 1941", "1941 disestablishments in New York (state)", "Culture of Manhattan", "Educational institutions established in 1936", "Defunct schools in New York City"], "title": "American Artists School"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727282", "text": "ADBA\n\nADBA may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7727282", "categories": [], "title": "ADBA"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727285", "text": "Mae Giraci\n\nMae Georgia Giraci (22 January 1910 – 10 January 2006), also known as May Giraci, May Garcia, May Geraci, May Giracci, May Giracia and Tina Rossi, was an American child actress who appeared in silent films between 1915 and 1929. She was discovered by director Cecil B. DeMille and worked with him and his brother William C. DeMille. She died of colon cancer in 2006.\n\n", "id": "7727285", "categories": ["American child actresses", "Deaths from cancer in California", "American silent film actresses", "Deaths from colorectal cancer", "Actresses from Los Angeles", "1910 births", "American film actresses", "2006 deaths"], "title": "Mae Giraci"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727353", "text": "Malagueñas (flamenco style)\n\nMalagueñas () is one of the traditional styles of Andalusian music (flamenco), derived from earlier types of fandango from the area of Málaga, classified among the Cantes de Levante. Originally a folk-song type, it became a flamenco style in the 19th century. It is not normally used for dance, as it is generally interpreted with no regular rhythmic pattern, as a \"cante libre\". It has a very rich melody with virtuous flourishes and use of microtones. Its guitar accompaniment is normally played in open position first inversion giving E for the tonic, which can be transposed by using a capo.\n\nMalagueñas derive from local variety of the Fandangos, a type of dance that, with different regional variations and even different names, became very popular in great part of Spain in the 18th century. Although nowadays malagueñas are a typical instance of \"cante libre\", performed at libitum and normally not used for the dance, folkloric fandangos were originally sung and played at a fast speed, with a rhythmic pattern in , to accompany dance. Some of these primitive fandangos from Málaga, called Verdiales are still performed nowadays at folkloric gatherings by large non-professional groups called \"Pandas\", which use a high number of guitars, \"bandurrias\" (a sort of mandoline), violins, and tambourines.\n\nTowards the second half of the 19th century, some interpreters gave the first steps in transforming this folkloric songs into real flamenco. They slowed it down (although still keeping the eastern fandango rhythm pattern known as \"abandolao\"), they enriched the melody with flourishes and ornaments and reduced accompanying instruments to a single guitar. In this process, they were probably influenced by other flamenco styles, but modern research also suggests that the influence of Opera, Zarzuela and other classical music styles also played a part in this development.\n\nThe oldest malagueña of this type that has been preserved to our days is probably the Jabera . This was first mentioned by writer Serafin Estébanez Calderón, probably in the 1840s. According to this contemporary witness, this type of malagueña would have been created by an artist known as La Jabera. This early malagueña type still preserved a rhythmic pattern as those of later artists like Juan Breva. Most of the malagueña types were created in the last decades of the 19th century.\n\nThe third step in the evolution was the total loss of a rhythmic pattern. This development was brought forward by singers like Antonio Chacón, Enrique el Mellizo and guitarists like Ramón Montoya, none of whom had been born in the area of Málaga, so they had not grown in contact with the original folkloric fandangos. They were in a sense, creators of a completely new style, fashioned by professional or semi-professional artists.\n\nSome of the traditional malagueña styles (melodic schemes) more frequently performed are listed below. Many though, have been omitted as they are rarely performed or are just variations of other main styles.\n\n1. Juan Breva. He recorded three of his malagueña styles personally in the early 20th century.\n\n2. Enrique el Mellizo. It is often said that he derived his malagueña from the preface to the catholic mass. After his influence, the rhythmic pattern of the malagueña guitar accompaniment was lost and it became a \"cante libre\". Among the interpreters of this style who helped to establish it we may mention El Niño de la Isla, Aurelio Sellé, Manolo Caracol and Pericón de Cádiz. Each of them has added personal touches to the Malagueña, so it is difficult to know which one resembles the original model most.\n\n3. El Canario. He created one style of Malagueña.\n\n4. Antonio Chacón. He was the most prolific creator of malagueñas and the styles he created are probably the most frequent in recordings. The number of the malagueñas he created varies, though, as some have been attributed to him only by tradition. Some of these styles can often be seen as simple variations. Most of these styles were already recorded by him between 1909 and 1928.\n\n5. La Trini. Her legacy was preserved by singers like Sebastián el Pena. Antonio Chacón created a personal variation of one of her styles.\n\nOriginally the guitar was, together with other instruments, already part of the accompaniment of folkloric fandango of Málaga. At that time its function was merely rhythmic and limited to the use of one technique, the strumming pattern called \"abandolao\". As malagueñas slowed down their tempo and professional guitarists came into place, short solos and ornaments were incorporated. The great revolution of the malagueña guitar playing came together with its transformation into a \"cante libre\": flamenco virtuosos like Ramón Montoya started introducing classical guitar techniques like arpeggio, scales, tremolo, and enriched it with a wider variety of chord positions. They also started introducing short guitar solos in between verses, called falsetas in the flamenco jargon, following the model of other flamenco songs.\n\nMalagueña is rarely performed as a guitar instrumental piece and very rarely danced.\n\nThe singing develops on a major mode (tonic, subdominant, dominant), resolving in the corresponding Phrygian mode of the same scale. The Phrygian mode is used for the short interludes after of before verses. The usual progression is the typical of all fandangos:\n\n\nTo this typical progression other transition chords can be added. For example, D7 is often used in the transition to G Major. A minor often appears in guitar interludes (or even during the singing, as in the case of the Malagueña del Mellizo). These chords can also be transported by using a capo on the guitar, maintaining the same chord positions.\n\nIts melodies are normally lyric in style and very ornate. Malagueña has traditionally been favoured by mellow voices, but there are many exceptions to this rule. Quite often, flamenco singers, after singing a several verses of malagueña in \"cante libre\" style, link directly with the more vivid styles of Fandangos abandolaos.\n\n", "id": "7727353", "categories": [], "title": "Malagueñas (flamenco style)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727360", "text": "Bureau of Budget and Planning\n\nWithin the United States Department of State, the Bureau of Budget and Planning (BP), previously the Bureau of Resource Management, assists agency heads with developing policies, plans, and programs to achieve foreign policy goals. The Assistant Secretary of BP and Chief Financial Officer, Jim Millette, also coordinates resource requirements to enable the Secretary of State to present integrated International Affairs resource submissions to the Office of Management and Budget and to the US Congress.\n\nThe Department of State divided the Bureau of Resource Management into the Bureau of Budget and Planning and the Bureau of the Comptroller and of Global Financial Services on June 29, 2012. Directors of the Bureau of Budget and Planning are designated, not commissioned.\n\n\n", "id": "7727360", "categories": ["United States Department of State agencies"], "title": "Bureau of Budget and Planning"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727363", "text": "Guerguerat\n\nGuerguerat ( , , ) is a small village in the far south west of Western Sahara, 11 km from the border with Mauritania and 5 km from the Atlantic Ocean. The village is under the control of Morocco. The Moroccan passport control stamp bears the name of Bir Gandouz, a nearby village.\nMorocco sees this frontier post as the southernmost barrier protecting the European Union.\n\nThe area between the Moroccan frontier post and the Mauritanian frontier is seen by Morocco as a no man's land and by the Polisario as part of the RASD.\n\nIn January 2015, the Polisario established a military presence in La Güera on the seaside, but apparently did not yet start controlling passports of people transiting to Mauritania.\n\nSince February 2017, the Gendarmerie Nationale (الدرك الوطني) started to hoist flags and turn back Moroccan lorries showing the contour of Morocco including Western Sahara.\nThe importance of Guerguerat to Morocco lies in two aspects: Moroccan exports of vegetables to Mauritania (especially to Nouadhibou) run through this border station and it is the only way for Moroccans to leave their country by land without a visa to another country.\nThe importance of Guerguerat to the SADR lies in the fact that this is the only location where it can exert pressure on Morocco by isolating it from Mauritania.\n", "id": "7727363", "categories": ["Populated places in Western Sahara"], "title": "Guerguerat"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727370", "text": "Frères chasseurs\n\nThe Frères chasseurs (French for \"Hunter Brothers\") were a paramilitary organization that fought in the Patriote Rebellion on the Patriote side, seeking to make Lower Canada, now Quebec, an independent and democratic republic.\n\nAfter the failure of the first uprising of 1837, the Frères chasseurs organization was founded in 1838 by Robert Nelson, Cyrille-Hector-Octave Côté (the vice president), Edmond-Élisée Malhiot, Antoine Doré, Julien Gagnon, Louis-Guillaume Lévesque, François Mercure, François Lemaître, Célestin Beausoleil and David Rochon. In September, it was composed of at least 35 lodges.\n\nThe Frères chasseurs attempted to invade Lower Canada from the United States to defeat the British army and its volunteers. On 22 February 1838, president Robert Nelson declared the independence of Lower Canada. Bishop Jean-Jacques Lartigue obtained information about the group and communicated it to John Colborne, who in turn used it to quell the Frères chasseurs. Members of the Frères chasseurs such as François-Marie-Thomas Chevalier de Lorimier were executed at the Pied-du-Courant Prison by the British authorities for their actions.\n\n", "id": "7727370", "categories": ["Lower Canada Rebellion", "Paramilitary organizations based in Canada", "Canada–United States relations"], "title": "Frères chasseurs"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727371", "text": "The New Wave (comics)\n\nThe New Wave was a superhero team comic book published 1986-87 by Eclipse Comics. The team debuted in a preview included in the pages of two other Eclipse publications, \"The New DNAgents\" #9 and \"Miracleman\" #8, before debuting in its own book. For its initial eight issues, \"The New Wave\" was published bi-weekly as a 16-page book. Beginning with issue 9 through the end of the 13-issue run the book became a full-sized monthly.\n\nThe series was co-created and written by Mindy Newell. The initial art team included penciller Lee Weeks and inker Ty Templeton. Issue #6 featured fill-in artist Erik Larsen, before he rose to fame on Marvel Comics' \"Spider-Man\". Issue #13 was drawn by Eric Shanower.\n\nThe first five issues of the series depicted the team's origin, and is set on a space station owned by a corporation headed by a CEO with plans for world domination. During the course of the story, the extraterrestrial Tachyon is teleported onto the station, by scientist James Holmes, with whom Tachyon bonds. Dot, a spy with the power to shrink, sneaks aboard the station on a government mission. Circus acrobat Polestar stows away after a romantic interlude with a space shuttle pilot, while Avalon, Holmes' teenage witch daughter, and her boyfriend, the telekinetically powered Impulse, are brought there by the CEO to use as leverage against Holmes. Megabyte, one of the CEO's robot guards, switches sides and assists the others to foil the CEO's plot. After deciding to stay together as a team, issues 7 - 9 depicted the team traveling to the mystical realm of Avalon, during which the titular character's mother is revealed to be the Lady of the Lake of Arthurian legend. Subsequent single issues focused on The Volunteers, a group of superhumans with ties to Dot, Polestar's life in the circus, a \"very special issue\" about teen pregnancy, and Tachyon's sense of alienation.\n\nFollowing the cancellation of the regular book, \"The New Wave\" returned in a two-issue \"micro-series\" called \"The New Wave versus The Volunteers\". The book was rendered in 3-D in addition to non-3D format.\n\nFollowing the bankruptcy of Eclipse Comics, its properties were purchased by Todd McFarlane, including the rights to the New Wave characters. The supporting character Heap has been re-imagined as an antagonist to McFarlane's character, Spawn.\n\n\nSupporting cast included James Holmes, Avalon's father and a scientist who was partially responsible for bringing Tachyon from his home dimension, and The Heap, a Golden Age character similar to Marvel's Man-Thing.\n\nWriter Jay Faerber, who first discovered \"The New Wave\" after he began frequenting a comic book store called Gema Books as a high school freshman, has cited the book as a seminal influence on him and his writing, citing its experimental biweekly, 16-page format, its emphasis on character depth over physical combat, and the originality of the character's personalities and motivations.\n", "id": "7727371", "categories": ["Eclipse Comics superheroes", "Eclipse Comics titles"], "title": "The New Wave (comics)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727384", "text": "Akira Ryō\n\nRacing fans outside Japan will know him for his regular wild card entries into international championships, primarily in the Japanese rounds. In the Superbike World Championship he entered between and , taking a win in the Japanese round in , as well as three further podiums. He was the main development rider for Suzuki's GSV-R MotoGP bike, and raced in several times in 2002 and 2003. He nearly caused a major upset at the 2002 Japanese Grand Prix by leading for much of the race, before finishing second to Valentino Rossi.\n\n", "id": "7727384", "categories": ["1967 births", "Living people", "Japanese motorcycle racers", "Sportspeople from Hyōgo Prefecture", "Suzuki factory MotoGP riders", "Superbike World Championship riders"], "title": "Akira Ryō"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727397", "text": "Red Flag (Jericho)\n\n\"Red Flag\" is the tenth episode of season one of the CBS drama \"Jericho\".\n\nOn the eve of Thanksgiving, Jake, Stanley and an unidentified man are hunting for turkeys.\n\nFinding one such parcel in a field, they open it to discover that it is stocked with food.\n\nStanley arrives home to discover not only that Mimi has already helped herself to some chocolate from a food parcel but also that another airdropped container contains a generator. He sends Mimi off to tell Jake.\n\nMayor Green, Jake and Hawkins organize a raid on Jonah's compound to retrieve the generator. However, before they can do anything, Emily, who had sneaked in minutes before, drives the truck carrying the generator out the front gate to the astonishment of Jake and Jonah, who orders his men not to fire. Afterward, some of Jonah's men, especially Mitchell, question his decision. Jonah tells them that you win some and you lose some and dares Mitchell to challenge his leadership directly, which leads Mitchell to back down for now.\n\nElsewhere, the relationship between Stanley and Mimi grows closer when she helps him recover from his wounds, and they later kiss after he helps her remember Thanksgiving before the bombs by mixing her a Tang and tequila drink. Eric finally learns that April is pregnant.\n\nHawkins returns home late for Thanksgiving dinner to face his disappointed family, who had hoped that at least this year he would be there instead of away on an assignment. Hawkins asks his family to accompany him to the center of town to see what he was working on. At the end of the episode, Hawkins helps Jimmy turn on the generator. People gather in the streets to see the lights illuminate for the first time since the EMP. As Gracie closes up shop, an unknown person grabs her from behind and stabs her in the abdomen with a knife. She slumps to the floor as people continue to walk by outside, unaware of her predicament.\n\n\n", "id": "7727397", "categories": ["2006 American television episodes"], "title": "Red Flag (Jericho)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727398", "text": "Benbaun\n\nBenbaun () is a mountain in County Galway, Ireland, the highest of the Twelve Bens, and the highest peak in Galway. As the highest point in Galway, it is the 10th highest county peak in Ireland.\n\nThe mountain, along with Twelve Bens range, is part of the Connemara National Park.\n", "id": "7727398", "categories": ["Hewitts of Ireland", "Mountains and hills of County Galway", "Marilyns of Ireland", "Mountains under 1000 metres", "Highest points of Irish counties"], "title": "Benbaun"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727405", "text": "Baselios Thomas I\n\nBaselios Thomas I Maphrian (Mal: ആബൂന് മോര് ബസേലിയോസ് തോമസ്‌ പ്രഥമന് കാതോലിക്ക ബാവ, b: July 22, 1929) is an Indian bishop and the current Catholicos of India and primate of the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church, an autonomous Catholicate under the supreme ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the Syriac Orthodox Church. He was enthroned on 26 July 2002 by Syriac Orthodox Patriarch Ignatius Zakka I Iwas, Patriarch of Antioch and All the East in a ceremony held in Damascus, Syria. The office of the Maphrian has been vacant between 1996 (date of death of Baselios Paulose II Catholicos and 2002.\n\nCatholicos Baselios Thomas I was born in the Cheruvillil family of Vadayambadi in Puthencruz to Mathai and Kunjamma on July 22, 1929. \nEarly part of the life of Mor Baselios Thomas I was of sufferings. Though he belonged to an aristocratic family, by the time he was born the family had seen bad days. As a child he had frequent bouts of illness which affected his education. His mother used to take the young boy frequently to the nearby Malekurishu Dayro where the relics of late Patriarch St. Elias III had been interred.\n\nHis priestly formation was under the guidance of Mor Philoxenos Paulos (later Catholicos Baselios Paulose II) who ordained him korooyo in 1952 and mshamshono at Kadamatom Church in 1957. In 1958, he was ordained priest by Mor Yulius Elias Qoro in September 1958 at Manjinikkara. He is the 43rd priest from the Cheruvillil family. C.M. Thomas served as the vicar of St. Peter's church, Puthencruz from 1959 while also serving churches at Mookkannur, Vellathooval, Keezhumuri, St. Peter's & St. Paul's Orthodox Church - Fort Cochin, Valamboor and later at Calcutta and Trichur. In 1960, while vicar at Puthenkurish, he played a key role in rebuilding the church; parishioners fondly recollect their priest working with them during the reconstruction. From 1967-74, he served as the organizing secretary of Kolenchery Medical Mission Hospital. In 1970, he served as the organizer for the North Indian mission at Bhilai and in 1974 as the secretary of the Pourasthaya Suvishesha Samajam. Since his ordination as korooyo, at age 24, Thomas was active in preaching the gospel in the remote parts of Kerala. From his vision and zeal to spread the gospel arose the St. Paul's prayer fellowship and the Puthencruz gospel convention which is held annually from December 26–31.\nIn 2019, he has relinquished his administrative duties and resigned as \"Metropolitan Trustee\" position and will remain as Catholicos of India.\nFr C.M. Thomas was elected to the episcopate by the Malankara Jacobite Syrian Christian Association meeting at Karingachira St. George Church in January 1974 and was consecrated, under the name of Mor Dionysius, metropolitan of the Angamali Diocese, the largest Syriac Orthodox diocese, by Mor Ignatius Ya`qub III on February 24, 1974 at Damascus along with Geevarghese Mor Gregorios (Perumpally Thirumeni). The two metropolitans played a significant role in leading the church during the crisis of the seventies. After the passing away of Mor Gregorios Geevarghese in February 1999, Mor Dionysius assumed the Presidency of the Malankara Syrian Orthodox Church Synod and was elected Catholicos-Designate at the delegates meeting held at Puthenkurishu on December 27, 2000 and again by the Malankara Association reconstituted under the newly formed constitution on June 6, 2002.\n\nOn July 26, 2002, Mor Dionysius was consecrated Catholicos of India by name Baselios Thomas I in a ritual officiated by Syriac Orthodox Patriarch Moran Mor Ignatius Zakka I Iwas of Antioch and All the East and Supreme Head of the Syriac Orthodox Church, at Maarat Saidnaya, Damascus. As the head of the Church in India the Catholicos presides over the Holy Episcopal Synod of Malankara Church which includes all the Metropolitans of the Syrian Orthodox Church in India. He is also the Metropolitan Trustee of the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church.\n\nThe Catholicate office of Mor Baselios Thomas I functions and resides at the \"Mor Ignatius Zakka I Centre\" also known as Patriarchal Centre in Puthencruz near Kochi, which is also the headquarters of the Syriac Orthodox Church in India.\n\n", "id": "7727405", "categories": ["Living people", "Malankara Jacobite Syrian Orthodox Church", "Syriac Orthodox Church bishops", "1929 births", "People from Ernakulam district"], "title": "Baselios Thomas I"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727406", "text": "Black and White Ball\n\nThe Black and White Ball was a masquerade ball held on November 28, 1966 at the Plaza Hotel in New York City. Hosted by author Truman Capote, the ball was in honor of \"The Washington Post\" publisher Katharine Graham.\n\nTruman Capote decided in June 1966 to throw a lavish party. He was at the height of his popularity as an author and as a public figure following the publication of his non-fiction novel, \"In Cold Blood\", earlier that year. For the first time Capote had the financial resources to host a party he deemed worthy of the friends he had cultivated in high society.\n\nAccording to Capote's friend, the writer and editor Leo Lerman, Capote had declared in 1942 on a journey to the writer's colony Yaddo that when he, Capote, became rich and famous he would throw a party for his rich and famous friends. Capote always discounted the story but through constant repetition it became part of the ball's legend.\n\nCapote's friend, author Dominick Dunne, had given a black and white ball in 1964 for his tenth wedding anniversary. Capote attended with Alvin Dewey and others he had met while researching \"In Cold Blood\". Capote was also inspired by the \"Ascot scene\" from the film \"My Fair Lady\" in which the women were all dressed in black and white.\n\nAfter deciding to throw the party, Capote had to select a guest of honor. Throwing the party for himself would have been viewed by his society friends as vulgar. Rather than selecting from amongst his stable of beautiful society women he called his \"swans\", Capote chose \"The Washington Post\" publisher Katharine Graham. \"Truman called me up that summer and said, 'I think you need cheering up. And I'm going to give you a ball.'...I was...sort of baffled...I felt a little bit like Truman was going to give the ball anyway and that I was part of the props.\"\n\nFor his venue, Capote chose the Grand Ballroom of the Plaza Hotel in New York City. Capote had long held a deep affection for the Plaza, even setting the opening scene of his attempted first novel, \"Summer Crossing\", in a Plaza dining room. Capote enlisted Evie Backer, who had decorated his apartment at United Nations Plaza, for the event's decor. Initially Capote planned to cover the ballroom's white and gold walls with heavy red drapes but Backer and Capote's friend Babe Paley convinced him to abandon this idea. Instead he brought in the color with red tablecloths. Rather than flowers, Capote had the tables adorned with gold candelabra wound with smilax and bearing white tapers. The night's menu, to be served at midnight, consisted of scrambled eggs, sausages, biscuits, pastries, spaghetti and meatballs and chicken hash, a specialty of the Plaza and one of Capote's favorite dishes. To drink Capote laid in 450 bottles of Taittinger champagne.\n\nCapote spent a total of $16,000 on the ball.\n\nCapote purchased a black-and-white composition book and spent most of July sitting by his friend Eleanor Friede's pool compiling his initial guest list. Capote carried the book with him everywhere he went for the next three months, constantly adding and deleting names.\n\nBefore the ball, many of the guests attended one of sixteen small private dinner parties that Capote's friends had been drafted to host.\n\nThe Black and White Ball was credited with starting an immediate upsurge in masquerade and costume parties. It has been described as \"a pinnacle of New York's social history\". Six days after the ball, on the December 4 episode of the television panel show \"What's My Line?,\" panelist Arlene Francis wore the mask she had worn at the party, transformed into a blindfold. The wearing of blindfolds during the show's special Mystery Guest segment was customary on the part of the panel.\n\nPrincess Yasmin Aga Khan hosted a Black and White Ball in 1991, commemorating the 25th anniversary of the original. The ball, held in a tent outside Tavern on the Green, was a charity event that raised $1.4 million for the Alzheimer's Association.\n\nIn anticipation of selling the contents of the Plaza Hotel, Christie's Auction House recreated the Black and White Ball in 2006 at Rockefeller Center. The event followed Capote's dress code, schedule and menu exactly and the Peter Duchin Orchestra, which had played the original, played the recreation.\n\nTV chef Ina Garten recreated a scaled-down version of the event for a themed dinner party on her daytime cookery show Barefoot Contessa. She served chicken hash followed by French toast and truffles for dessert, in keeping with the black and white theme of Capote's party.\n", "id": "7727406", "categories": ["Masquerade balls", "Balls in the United States", "Truman Capote", "1966 in New York City"], "title": "Black and White Ball"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727409", "text": "Grand Prix Construction Set\n\nGrand Prix Construction Set is a computer game for the BBC Micro originally released in 1987 by Superior Software. It is a basic simulation of Formula One coupled with the facility to design tracks. It can be played in full screen single-player or two-player split screen modes.\n\nUnlike the majority of Superior's BBC Micro games at the time, it was not possible to convert the game to the Acorn Electron but a game that started out as an Electron equivalent became the BBC/Electron motorbike racing game \"Crazee Rider\".\n\nIt was also available on the 1988 Superior Software compilation \"Play It Again Sam 4\", along with \"Frak!\", \"Cosmic Camouflage\", and \"Spellbinder\".\n\n", "id": "7727409", "categories": ["Split-screen multiplayer games", "1987 video games", "Superior Software games", "BBC Micro and Acorn Electron-only games", "BBC Micro and Acorn Electron games", "Video games developed in the United Kingdom", "Europe-exclusive video games"], "title": "Grand Prix Construction Set"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727417", "text": "Cyprus at the 1980 Winter Olympics\n\nCyprus competed at the Winter Olympic Games for the first time at the 1980 Winter Olympics in Lake Placid, United States.\n\n", "id": "7727417", "categories": ["Cyprus at the Winter Olympics by year", "1980 in Cypriot sport", "Nations at the 1980 Winter Olympics"], "title": "Cyprus at the 1980 Winter Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727418", "text": "Frank B. Colton\n\nFrank Benjamin Colton (March 3, 1923 – November 25, 2003), American chemist who first synthesized noretynodrel, the progestin used in Enovid, the first oral contraceptive, at G. D. Searle & Company in Skokie, Illinois in 1952.\n\nFrank B. Colton was born in Poland and immigrated to the United States in 1934. He earned his B.S. and M.S. degrees in chemistry from Northwestern University in 1945 and 1946 and his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1950. He was a research fellow at the Mayo Foundation from 1949 to 1951 working with Nobel Laureate Edward C. Kendall to develop an improved synthesis of cortisone.\n\nIn 1951 he joined Searle as a senior research chemist. In 1952 Colton synthesized the progestin noretynodrel (an isomer of norethisterone), which combined with the estrogen mestranol as Enovid was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1956 for menstrual disorders and in 1960 as the first oral contraceptive. In 1953 he synthesized norethandrolone, which as Nilevar was approved in 1956 as the first oral anabolic steroid. In 1954 Colton and Paul D. Klimstra synthesized the progestin etynodiol diacetate, which combined with the estrogen mestranol as Ovulen was approved in 1965 as Searle's second oral contraceptive, and combined with the estrogen ethinylestradiol was approved in 1970 as Demulen. Colton retired from Searle in 1986 as research adviser. In 1988 he was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame.\n\n", "id": "7727418", "categories": ["20th-century American chemists", "1923 births", "2003 deaths"], "title": "Frank B. Colton"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727423", "text": "Cyprus at the 1984 Winter Olympics\n\nCyprus competed at the 1984 Winter Olympics in Sarajevo, Yugoslavia.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7727423", "categories": ["Nations at the 1984 Winter Olympics", "Cyprus at the Winter Olympics by year", "1984 in Cypriot sport"], "title": "Cyprus at the 1984 Winter Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727429", "text": "Cyprus at the 1988 Winter Olympics\n\nCyprus competed at the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7727429", "categories": ["Cyprus at the Winter Olympics by year", "1988 in Cypriot sport", "Nations at the 1988 Winter Olympics"], "title": "Cyprus at the 1988 Winter Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727433", "text": "Cyprus at the 1992 Winter Olympics\n\nCyprus competed at the 1992 Winter Olympics in Albertville, France.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7727433", "categories": ["Cyprus at the Winter Olympics by year", "Nations at the 1992 Winter Olympics", "1992 in Cypriot sport"], "title": "Cyprus at the 1992 Winter Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727436", "text": "Cyprus at the 1994 Winter Olympics\n\nCyprus sent a delegation to compete at the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, Norway from 12–27 February 1994. This was Cyprus' fifth consecutive appearance at a Winter Olympic Games since their debut in the 1980 Winter Olympics. The delegation sent to Lillehammer by Cyprus consisted of a single alpine skier, Karolina Fotiadou. In the women's super-G she came in 46th place.\n\nThe Cyprus Olympic Committee was first recognized by the International Olympic Committee in 1978, and the nation has participated in every Summer Olympics and Winter Olympic Games since their debut in 1980. The 1994 Winter Olympics were held from 12–27 February 1994, a total of 1,737 athletes took part, representing 67 National Olympic Committees. This was Cyprus' fifth consecutive Winter Olympics appearance. The only athlete sent to Lillehammer by Cyprus was alpine skier Karolina Fotiadou. She was chosen as the flag bearer for the opening ceremony.\n\nKarolina Fotiadou was 23 years old at the time of the Lillehammer Olympics. She was a veteran of the 1988 Winter Olympics, and the 1992 Winter Olympics. Her only event in Lillehammer was the women's super-G. On 15 February, she finished the single run race in a time of 1 minute and 43.97 seconds, which put her 46th and last among competitors who finished the race. The gold medal was won by Diann Roffe-Steinrotter of the United States in a time of 1 minute and 22.15 seconds, silver was won by Svetlana Gladysheva of Russia, and bronze was taken by Isolde Kostner of Italy.\n", "id": "7727436", "categories": ["Cyprus at the Winter Olympics by year", "Nations at the 1994 Winter Olympics"], "title": "Cyprus at the 1994 Winter Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727440", "text": "Zmaj Children Games\n\nZmaj Children Games ( / \"Zmajeve dečije igre\") is one of the biggest festivals for children in Serbia and the Novi Sad region. Named after Jovan Jovanović Zmaj, one of the most famous Serbian poets and writers of children's literature, the festival is held annually in June and December in Novi Sad, the capital of the Serbian province of Vojvodina.\n\nThe first festival was held in June 1958 under the name \"\"Festival of literature for children, drama and puppet theatre\"\" (\"\"Фестивал дечије поезије, драме и луткарског позоришта\"\"). Its organizer is Matica Srpska in Novi Sad. In 1969, the name was changed to \"Zmaj Children Games\".\n\nThe main idea behind the festival is to gather writers, illustrators, critics, publishers, editors and readers of children's literature from Serbia and beyond. The Zmaj Children Games have their own publishing in the form of the magazine \"\"Детињство\"\" (\"Childhood\") and hold a gathering of well respected children's literature authors in Zmaj Jovina Street 26.\n\nEvery June for a few days, children's plays, concerts, and shows gather children from Novi Sad and its surrounding region in Zmaj Jovina Street (the main street in Novi Sad's city centre).\n\n\n", "id": "7727440", "categories": ["Children's festivals", "Recurring events established in 1958", "Culture in Novi Sad"], "title": "Zmaj Children Games"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727441", "text": "Cyprus at the 1998 Winter Olympics\n\nCyprus sent a delegation to compete at the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan from 7–22 February 1998. This was Cyprus' sixth appearance at a Winter Olympics. Their delegation to Nagano consisted of a single alpine skier, Andreas Vasili. In the men's slalom competition on the penultimate day of the games, he failed to finish his first run and was eliminated.\n\nThe Cyprus Olympic Committee was first recognized by the International Olympic Committee in 1978, and the nation has participated in every Summer Olympics and Winter Olympic Games since their debut in 1980. The Nagano Olympics were therefore their sixth appearance at a Winter Olympics. Cyprus has won only one medal in Olympic competition, in sailing at the 2012 Summer Olympics. The 1998 Winter Olympics were held from 7–22 February 1998; a total of 2,176 athletes represented 72 National Olympic Committees. The Cypriot delegation to Nagano consisted of one alpine skier, Andreas Vasili. He was the flag bearer for the opening ceremony.\n\nAndreas Vasili was 26 years old at the time of the Nagano Olympics, and was making his second Olympic appearance, having previously represented Cyprus at the 1992 Winter Olympics. On 21 February, he was one of 66 competitors in the men's slalom, a two-run race where the total of an athlete's times determined their final position. Vasili failed to finish the first run, and was eliminated from the competition. The gold medal was won later in the day by Hans Petter Buraas and the silver by Ole Kristian Furuseth, both of Norway; bronze was won by Thomas Sykora of Austria.\n", "id": "7727441", "categories": ["Nations at the 1998 Winter Olympics", "Cyprus at the Winter Olympics by year"], "title": "Cyprus at the 1998 Winter Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727448", "text": "Cyprus at the 2002 Winter Olympics\n\nCyprus sent a delegation to compete at the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, United States from 8–24 February 2002. This was Cyprus' seventh consecutive appearance at a Winter Olympic Games after their debut at the 1980 Winter Olympics. The delegation consisted of one athlete, Theodoros Christodoulou, an alpine skier. He finished 54th in the giant slalom and failed to complete the slalom.\n\nThe Cyprus Olympic Committee was first recognised by the International Olympic Committee in 1978, and the nation has participated in every Summer Olympics and Winter Olympic Games since their debut in 1980. At the time of the Salt Lake City Olympics, no Cypriot athlete had ever won a medal. They would win their first medal at the 2012 Summer Olympics. This was their seventh appearance at a Winter Olympic Games. The 2002 Winter Olympics were held from 8–24 February 2002; a total of 2,399 athletes representing 77 National Olympic Committees took part. The only athlete sent by Cyprus to Salt Lake City was an alpine skier, Theodoros Christodoulou. He was the flag bearer for both the opening ceremony and the closing ceremony.\n\nTheodoros Christodoulou was 24 years old at the time of the Salt Lake City Olympics, and he was making his Olympic debut. On 21 February, he participated in the men's giant slalom, finishing the first run in a time of 1 minute and 21.67 seconds, and the second in 1 minute and 19.92 seconds. This made his total time for the competition to be 2 minutes and 41.59 seconds, and placed him 54th, out of 57 competitors who finished the race, the gold medal was won by Stephan Eberharter of Austria in a time of 2 minutes and 23.28 seconds. Three days later, on 24 February, Christodoulou took part in the slalom, where he completed the first run in 59.74 seconds and was in 46th place. However, he failed to finish the second run, and went unranked for the competition. Christodoulou would later go on to represent Cyprus at the 2006 Winter Olympics.\n", "id": "7727448", "categories": ["Cyprus at the Winter Olympics by year", "Nations at the 2002 Winter Olympics"], "title": "Cyprus at the 2002 Winter Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727451", "text": "Sathamba\n\nSathamba is a town located in Aravali district of the Indian state of Gujarat and the seat of a former princely state. It has a population of approximately 15,000. It was ruled by Baria Kolis having Thakor title.\n\nSathamba was a princely state during the time of the British Raj. As such it had a population of 5,360 and an area of in 1892. It then formed part of the Mahi Kantha Agency. Thakore Saheb Shri Sursinhji Ratansinhji signed the Instrument of Accession to merge the State of Sathamba into the Indian Union on 10 June 1948, to newly independent India, the Privy Purse being fixed at 18,800 Rupees.\n\n (Samvat 1325).\n\nThe major source of income for families is agriculture. There is also work in the quarry & stone crushing businesses surrounding the village, which comprise more than 30 companies. , the previously well-known cotton ginning and pressing factory of the village was struggling as a consequence of a series of annual droughts.\n\n", "id": "7727451", "categories": ["Villages in Aravalli district"], "title": "Sathamba"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727491", "text": "Second Skin (song)\n\nSecond Skin was the second single by American punk rock band The Gits. The record was released as a limited edition 7\" single by the San Francisco-based Broken Rekids Records who would later handle all of the band's discography. Included in the track listing were early versions of \"Second Skin\" (later included on the Frenching the Bully album) and \"Social Love\" (later re-recorded for the album).\n\n", "id": "7727491", "categories": ["The Gits songs", "1991 singles", "Songs with feminist themes"], "title": "Second Skin (song)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727509", "text": "Heal the Bay\n\nHeal the Bay is a U.S. environmental advocacy non-profit organization based in Santa Monica, California. The organization's focus is on protecting California's Santa Monica Bay, a region of the Pacific coast encompassed by Malibu's Point Dume on the north and the Palos Verdes Peninsula on the south. In broader terms, it also supports efforts to preserve and protect all Southern California coastal waters and watersheds.\n\nHeal the Bay was founded in 1985 by a group led by environmental activist Dorothy Green. Mark Gold became the president of the organization in 2006 and held the position until 2012. The current president and CEO is Shelley Luce, who took the post in April 2017. The organization has become a prominent advocate for the environment in California, and is particularly known for its annual report card ratings of the water quality at beaches along the Pacific coast. It was also active in advocating for restrictions on plastic bags in California.\n\nHeal the Bay supports public health and education outreach programs as well as sponsoring beach cleanup programs such as Coastal Cleanup Day and Adopt-a-Beach. It also operates the Santa Monica Pier Aquarium, which was formerly known as the Ocean Discovery Center and was operated by UCLA until 2003. Heal the Bay has recently been the subject of some controversy regarding its positions on the Ballona Wetlands, with some stakeholder groups such as the Ballona Wetlands Land Trust criticizing Heal the Bay for not opposing various special interest land uses in the Ballona Wetlands.\n\nHeal the Bay is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. It has both full-time paid staff members and volunteers. It works with a number of partners in pursuing its goals.\n\nHeal the Bay has worked with artists such as Marina DeBris to educate people about beach trash.\n\n\n", "id": "7727509", "categories": ["Environmental organizations established in 1985", "Environmental organizations based in California", "Organizations based in Santa Monica, California", "Environment of Los Angeles", "Water resource policy", "501(c)(3) nonprofit organizations", "Non-profit organizations based in California"], "title": "Heal the Bay"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727510", "text": "Brian Timmis Stadium\n\nBrian Timmis Stadium was a soccer stadium in Hamilton, Ontario. The stadium was built in 1968, and seated 5,000 people. The stadium most recently hosted association football (soccer) teams Hamilton Croatia, a Canadian Soccer League club, and the Hamilton Avalanche, a club that plays in the W-League of the United Soccer Leagues.\n\nThe stadium has also previously hosted soccer teams the Hamilton Steelers and the Hamilton Thunder before the franchises folded.\n", "id": "7727510", "categories": ["Soccer venues in Canada", "Sports venues in Hamilton, Ontario"], "title": "Brian Timmis Stadium"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727513", "text": "Richard Hughes (jockey)\n\nRichard Hughes (born 11 January 1973) is a retired Irish jockey and current racehorse trainer who is based at Lambourn in Berkshire, England. Born in Dublin, he is the son of successful National Hunt trainer, Dessie Hughes. Hughes became British flat racing Champion Jockey in 2012 and retained that title in 2013, when he rode more than 200 winners in the season, and again in 2014.\n\nHughes started pony racing aged seven, having his first win aboard Chestnut Lady in a six furlong race at Wexford. His first ride in the senior ranks was in a six furlong maiden at Naas on 19 March 1988, on a debutant called Scath Na Greine. He finished tenth.\n\nSince the end of 2013, Hughes' main provider of rides has been trainer Richard Hannon Jr., who is also his brother in law. For many years before that he rode for Hannon's father, Richard Hannon Sr. and from 2001-07 he was also retained by the owner Prince Khalid Abdullah. Hughes is 5'10\" in height, very tall for a flat jockey, similar to Tony McCoy; both men have to maintain his weight significantly below natural levels, even for a jockey. His larger natural size means he cannot ride horses carrying light weights, reducing his winning opportunities. Hughes is respected for his riding style of 'nursing' horses along, getting horses to respond and run into the race without appearing to physically ride them hard.\n\nIn October 2011, Hughes received a five day ban for hitting Swift Blade six times in the final furlong and a few days later got a ten day ban for More Than Words too many times with the whip inside the final furlong in a race at Kempton. The ban was the first of its kind to be implemented after a change in the rules regarding horse welfare. On 13 October 2011, it was announced that Hughes was giving up his racing licence and quitting the sport out of protest at the ban.\n\nHughes did not follow up on this threat and on 15 October 2012 he equaled Frankie Dettori's record of winning seven races in a single meeting by winning seven out of eight races at Windsor Racecourse.\n\nThe following month, he claimed his first British flat racing Champion Jockey title with 172 winners over the season.\n\nIn May 2013, after a long wait, he won his first British Classic on Sky Lantern in the 1,000 Guineas. He then won his second a month later on Talent in the Oaks. On 21 June 2013, he won the Coronation Stakes at Royal Ascot on 1000 guineas winner Sky Lantern.\n\nAt the end of the 2013 British flat racing Hughes was crowned Champion Jockey for the second consecutive season. His total of 208 winners made him the first jockey to ride more than 200 winners in a British flat season since Kieren Fallon in 2003. He retained the title again in 2014, before retiring and taking up training.\n\nHughes is married to wife Lizzie and the couple have two son's and a daughter. Outside of racing he enjoys playing a lot of golf.\n\n\nGreat Britain\n France\nIndia\nIreland\nItaly\n\n\n\n", "id": "7727513", "categories": ["1973 births", "Lester Award winners", "British Champion flat jockeys", "Irish jockeys", "Living people"], "title": "Richard Hughes (jockey)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727525", "text": "Guy Joseph Bonnet\n\nGuy Joseph Bonnet (June 10, 1773 – January 9, 1843) was a Haitian historian and a major general of the Army of the Republic of Haiti. He was one of the signers of the Haitian Act of Independence, which formally declared Haiti independent from French colonial rule. He is known for his historical book \"Souvenirs Historiques\" (\"Historical Memories\"), published posthumously in 1864.\n\n", "id": "7727525", "categories": ["1843 deaths", "1773 births", "Haitian military personnel", "Haitian male writers", "Presidents of the Senate (Haiti)", "Haitian historians"], "title": "Guy Joseph Bonnet"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727537", "text": "Robarts Arena\n\nRobarts Arena is a multi-purpose indoor arena in Sarasota, Florida, located on the Sarasota County Fairgrounds. \nBuilt in 1967, it has a seating capacity of about 4,000. In 2011, Robarts Arena is undergoing $500,000 in capital improvements.\n\n", "id": "7727537", "categories": ["Indoor arenas in Florida", "1967 establishments in Florida", "Continental Basketball Association venues", "Sports venues in Florida", "Sports venues completed in 1967", "Arena football venues"], "title": "Robarts Arena"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727539", "text": "Oreck\n\nOreck is the family name of:\n", "id": "7727539", "categories": [], "title": "Oreck"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727544", "text": "The N.W.A Legacy, Vol. 1: 1988–1998\n\nThe N.W.A Legacy, Vol. 1: 1988–1998 is a compilation of various tracks by N.W.A and its solo members Ice Cube, Eazy-E, Dr. Dre, MC Ren, and Yella. There are only three tracks by the group collectively (including \"Straight Outta Compton\" and \"Fuck the Police\"), and most of the tracks are by N.W.A members' solo work and collaborations with other rappers, including \"It Was a Good Day (Remix)\" and \"Dead Homiez\" from Ice Cube, \"Boyz-n-tha Hood (Remix)\" and \"We Want Eazy\" by Eazy-E, \"California Love,\" \"Natural Born Killaz,\" and \"Let Me Ride\" by Dr. Dre.\n\n The N.W.A Legacy, Vol. 1: 1988–1998\n\nMarisa Brown of Allmusic considered this a \"fun compilation\" despite the flaws she perceived such as not being a \"best-of\" compilation and most tracks being N.W.A solo work. The RIAA certified the album Gold on December 13, 1999 and later Platinum on September 30, 2002.\n", "id": "7727544", "categories": ["Gangsta rap compilation albums", "N.W.A albums", "1999 compilation albums", "Ruthless Records compilation albums", "G-funk compilation albums", "Hip hop compilation albums", "Priority Records compilation albums"], "title": "The N.W.A Legacy, Vol. 1: 1988–1998"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727587", "text": "Nogales International Airport (Mexico)\n\nNogales International Airport is an international airport located at Nogales, Sonora, Mexico, near the U.S.-Mexico border. It handles national and international air traffic for the city of Nogales. It is operated by Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares, a federal government-owned corporation.\n\nIn 2017, the airport handled 2,228 passengers, and in 2018 it handled 2,191 passengers.\n\n\n", "id": "7727587", "categories": ["Nogales, Sonora", "Airports in Sonora"], "title": "Nogales International Airport (Mexico)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727600", "text": "Continuous positive airway pressure\n\nContinuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is a form of positive airway pressure ventilator, which applies mild air pressure on a continuous basis to keep the airways continuously open in people who are not able to breathe spontaneously on their own. It is an alternative to positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP). Both modalities stent the lungs' alveoli open and thus recruit more of the lung's surface area for ventilation, but, while PEEP refers to devices that impose positive pressure only at the end of the exhalation, CPAP devices apply \"continuous\" positive airway pressure throughout the breathing cycle. Thus, the ventilator itself does not cycle during CPAP, no additional pressure above the level of CPAP is provided, and patients must initiate all of their breaths.\n\nCPAP typically is used for people who have breathing problems, such as sleep apnea. CPAP also may be used to treat preterm infants whose lungs have not yet fully developed. For example, physicians may use CPAP in infants with respiratory distress syndrome. It is associated with a decrease in the incidence of bronchopulmonary dysplasia. In some preterm infants whose lungs have not fully developed, CPAP improves survival and decreases the need for steroid treatment for their lungs. In resource-limited settings where CPAP improves respiratory rate and survival in children with primary pulmonary disease, researchers have found that nurses can initiate and manage care with once or twice daily physician rounds.\n\nCPAP therapy utilizes machines specifically designed to deliver a constant flow of pressure. Some CPAP machines have other features as well, such as heated humidifiers. CPAP is the most effective treatment for obstructive sleep apnea, in which the mild pressure from the CPAP prevents the airway from collapsing or becoming blocked.\n\nAlthough delivery of CPAP through a nasal mask is the most common modality of treatment, other systems exist for interfacing with adults and children. Nasal CPAP is frequently used in infants, though its use is controversial. Studies have shown nasal CPAP reduces ventilator time but an increased occurrence of pneumothorax was also prevalent. Oral masks and naso-oral masks are often used when nasal congestion or obstruction is an issue. Devices that combine nasal pressure with maxillary advancement devices (MAD) also exist.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7727600", "categories": [], "title": "Continuous positive airway pressure"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727602", "text": "First Meijin Tournament\n\nThe First Meijin Tournament was a landmark go competition held in Japan in 1961 and 1962. Taking more than 18 months to complete, it was a round-robin (league) format event, featuring 13 top players. It arguably assembled the strongest field ever of players to compete in an all-play-all event. The structure, which produced in Fujisawa Hideyuki the first modern-era Meijin and initiated the titleholder system annual competition for that title, was never repeated. Subsequent Meijin Leagues have been round-robins for nine players, followed by a best-of-seven challenger match. ( Crosstable at Gobase.)\nThe result was in doubt until the last game was finished, on 5 August 1962; the first games had been on 18 January 1961. The sponsors had held back the key games in the scheduling, to maintain the tension. The result was in the end something few could have predicted. Under the competition rules, komidashi was 5 points; if that made the game a jigo, it would be awarded to White. This has the same effect as komi of 5.5, except that as a tiebreak, White’s jigo wins were to count less than full wins. The final day featured the games between Fujisawa Hideyuki and Hashimoto Shoji, and Go Seigen and Sakata Eio. Fujisawa lost, and disappeared from the Nihon Ki-in building in Fukudaya, where the other game was in progress. When the only result that could have made Fujisawa the winner, a jigo win with White for Go Seigen, actually happened, Fujisawa had to be sought out to inform him that he was after all the first Meijin since Honinbo Shusai had died in 1940. According to \"Go Review\", Fujisawa had to be brought back from a bar where he was drowning his sorrows.\n\nWith each player having played 12 games, the results were:\n\n\nThe 78 games were each played over two days, with ten hours each on the clock.\n", "id": "7727602", "categories": ["1962 in go", "Go competitions", "History of go", "1961 in go", "1961 in Japan"], "title": "First Meijin Tournament"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727619", "text": "Celebrity Fit Club (U.S. TV series)\n\nCelebrity Fit Club is a reality television series which followed eight overweight celebrities as they tried to lose weight.\n\nThis show is based on the homonymous British version, which aired on the ITV Network from 2002 until 2006. The American version was executive produced by Richard Hall for Granada, in seasons 2–5.\n\nSplit into two competing teams of four members, each week teams are given different physical challenges and their members weighed to see if they reached their target goal weights. Contestants are monitored and supervised by a team comprising a nutritionist, a psychologist, and a physical trainer. The series was hosted by Ant until Season 7.\n\nAt one point during each of the first five seasons, a team trade-off was initiated, in which the fit clubbers voted one member off their team. The teammate with the most votes was then traded to the other team. In the case of a tie, the team captain made the final vote. After Season 1, a new rule was enforced prohibiting fit clubbers from voting for themselves. In Season 5, to balance the gender-based teams, a new twist was added, which allowed traded fit clubbers to choose a teammate from their old team to join their new team. In Season 6, Harvey did the trade-off himself; Season 7 did not have one.\n\n\nPremiered 9 January 2005\nfor 8 Episodes\nUp until the end of the show Daniel was a model team leader; however, in episode 6, he turned up very late and confused, and by episode 8 (the finale), he did not appear at all, which cost his team victory. He later revealed that he had been abusing narcotics due to his back trouble and had entered rehab. No team captain was appointed to replace him.\n\nPremiered 10 July 2005 for 8 Episodes\nPremiered 1 January 2006 for 8 Episodes\nNOTE: So far this is the only season where the team captains were not traded from their teams at the trade off.\n\nPremiered 6 August 2006 for 8 Episodes\n\nThe fifth season of \"Celebrity Fit Club\" premiered on 22 April 2007. Unlike previous seasons, the teams were grouped by sex until the team trade. The team trade took place on 13 May 2007. This season had 8 Episodes.\n\nStatistics as of 10 June 2007.\nThe sixth season, titled \"Celebrity Fit Club: Boot Camp,\" premiered on 13 March 2008 for 8 episodes. The cast comprised both alumni of past seasons and newcomers. The alumni included:\n\nNote: The Blue Team were known as the Newbies for the first 5 weigh-ins of the season.\n\nNote: The Red Team were known as the Second Chancers for the first 5 weigh-ins of the season.\n\nProduction designer Roy Rede was hired to create the season's new design. A boot camp standing set complete with an obstacle course was built in the mountains outside of Los Angeles.\n\nThe seventh and final season, still titled \"Celebrity Fit Club: Boot Camp\", premiered on 8 February 2010, with Harvey and Ian splitting the duties as host.\n", "id": "7727619", "categories": ["Obesity in the United States", "American television series based on British television series", "2010 American television series endings", "Fitness reality television series", "2005 American television series debuts", "2010s American reality television series", "English-language television programs", "Television series by ITV Studios", "2000s American reality television series"], "title": "Celebrity Fit Club (U.S. TV series)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727636", "text": "SS City of Columbus\n\nThe passenger steamer City of Columbus ran aground on Devil’s Bridge off the Gay Head Cliffs in Aquinnah, Massachusetts, in the early hours of January 18, 1884. She was owned by Boston & Savannah Steamship Company and was built in 1878 by John Roach and Sons, at Chester, Pennsylvania. \"City of Columbus\" made regular runs from Boston, Massachusetts to Savannah, Georgia.\n\nOn January 17, 1884 the steamer \"City of Columbus\" left Boston with a crew of 45 under the command of Captain Schuler E. Wright. Wright was very familiar with the area as he had made numerous trips through the reefs and sound of Martha's Vineyard. The captain left the \"City of Columbus\"'s bridge in the hands of his Second Mate Edward Harding and went below to sleep. While off Martha's Vineyard at 3:45 am on January 18, the lookout yelled to the second mate that the Devil’s Bridge buoy was off the port bow rather than where it should have appeared off the starboard bow just before the ship struck a double ledge of submerged rocks. Harding ordered the Quartermaster, Roderick A. McDonald, to go port followed by Captain Wright's order to \"hard port\" and once again the \"City of Columbus\" smacked against the reef. Wright attempted in vain to free the ship. Attempts to use the sails only pushed the boat further into the reef. After these attempts he decided to go over the “obstruction”. This just made things worse. The captain gathered the 87 passengers from below and was in the midst of explaining their situation when a rush of water into the cabin forced all to the top deck, where a giant wave struck the boat and swept all women and children, and many of the men, into the frozen waters.\n\nTwo lifeboats were launched from the \"City of Columbus\" only to have the ocean waves smash them against the iron sides of the ship. Passengers and crew attempted to stay afloat in the rough seas by holding onto the rigging of the ship. Lighthouse keeper Horiatio N. Pease and a complement of Gay Head Wampanoag Indians braved the waves in two lifeboats to save passengers that had held on. The sea was so rough that the Indians feared approaching the steamer would cause their own boat to get smashed, so they called to the men to dive off the rigging and come to the lifeboats. Most of those who attempted this were saved by the Indians.\n\nThe rescue effort was then continued when the revenue cutter \"Dexter\", skippered by Captain Eric Gabrielson, came to their aid. The \"Dexter\", being a smaller ship, was able to move about the wreckage and pull survivors off the rigging and masts. Two of the survivors were unconscious; Second Lieutenant John U. Rhodes saved them by tying himself to a rope and swimming to the wreck. Even after being hit with a piece of wreckage, he continued, climbing the rigging to bring the men back to safety. The \"City of Columbus\" had left Boston with 45 officers and crew and 87 passengers, only 17 crew members and 12 passengers survived the ordeal. This incident was reported as one of the worst ocean disasters of its time.\n\nThe shipwreck was later purchased by the Boston Towboat Company in 1886, and some parts were salvaged.\n\n", "id": "7727636", "categories": ["Victorian-era passenger ships of the United States", "Martha's Vineyard", "Ships built in Chester, Pennsylvania", "1878 ships", "Aquinnah, Massachusetts", "Shipwrecks of the Massachusetts coast", "Steamships of the United States"], "title": "SS City of Columbus"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727670", "text": "USS Fiske (DD-842)\n\nUSS \"Fiske\" (DD/DDR-842) was a of the United States Navy, the second Navy ship named for Rear Admiral Bradley A. Fiske (1854–1942), inventor of the Stadimeter and the aerial torpedo.\n\n\"Fiske\" was launched on 8 September 1945 by Bath Iron Works, Bath, Maine; sponsored by Mrs. F. E. Ribbentrop; and commissioned on 28 November 1945, Commander C. H. Smith in command.\n\nJoining the Atlantic Fleet, \"Fiske\" served as an engineering school ship for Destroyer Force, Atlantic, out of Portland, Maine, and made three cruises to the Mediterranean for duty with the 6th Fleet from her home port at Newport, Rhode Island, prior to the outbreak of the Korean War. In addition, she took part in the regular schedule of training operations along the east coast and in the Caribbean where in 1948 she rescued 10 men from a small coastal freighter sinking in the Windward Passage.\n\nOn 3 January 1951, \"Fiske\" sailed from Newport for the Panama Canal and the Far East, reporting on 12 February to the 7th Fleet at Sasebo, Japan for duty in the Korean War. Along with screening carrier task forces, she patrolled off Korea, joined in bombarding shore targets, and escorted shipping from Japan to the action areas. Sailing westward for home, she arrived at Newport from her round-the-world cruise on 8 August 1951. \"Fiske\" was decommissioned on 1 April 1952 for conversion to a radar picket destroyer, and accordingly reclassified DDR-842 on 18 July 1952.\n\nRecommissioned 25 November 1952, \"Fiske\" trained with her new equipment in preparation for her participation in the fall of 1953 in NATO Operation \"Mariner,\" which took her north of the Arctic Circle. In 1954 she resumed her annual tours of duty in the Mediterranean, serving the carrier task forces of the 6th Fleet as radar picket.\n\nHer training operations when assigned to the 2nd Fleet for duty in the western Atlantic and Caribbean included special work in development of anti-submarine warfare, and air defense. Homeported at Mayport, Florida, from August 1960, \"Fiske\" joined in NATO exercises north of the Arctic Circle in the fall of 1960, and at the close of the year, sailed for patrol duty in the Caribbean.\n\nIn October 1962 \"Fiske\" returned to Mayport from the Canary Islands where she had positioned herself for astronaut splashdown. On the evening of her arrival back home, and without her full crew, she was ordered to rendezvous with the in the Windward Passage as the Soviets were challenging the United States in the Cuban Missile Crisis. DDR-842 then joined the 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean Sea in February 1963. Following this deployment another change of home port to Newport, Rhode Island, took place.\n\n\"Fiske\"s classification reverted to DD-842 on 1 April 1964. Under the command of Cdr. John R. Ewing, \"Fiske\" underwent a Fleet Rehabilitation and Modernization (FRAM Mark I) at Brooklyn Navy Yard during 1964. Among other things, \"Fiske\"s second forward gun mount, Mount 52, was removed, and replaced by a pair of triple-mount Mark 32 torpedo tubes. The superstructure was replaced and an Anti-Submarine Rocket (ASROC) launcher and launch station was installed between the funnels on the 01 level. Aft of Stack 2 the superstructure was modified to include a Magazine (on the port side 01 level) for torpedoes, ASROC rockets and warheads, and depth charges for the DASH (Drone Anti-Submarine Helicopter) system, and a hangar starboard side 01 level for the two DASH helos. Aft of this superstructure the remainder of the 01 level was flight deck.\n\nTrials began in December 1964 with a period of shakedown cruises between yard visits with several dry-dock periods. In the late winter of 1965 \"Fiske\" underwent Operational Readiness Inspection at Guantanamo Bay Naval Station, Cuba. After successful completion, she returned to her home port, and the rest of DesRon 12, at Newport Naval Station, Rhode Island.\n\nOn Mother's Day, 1965, all leaves and liberties were canceled and an emergency recall was sent out for immediate return to the ship. \"Fiske\" got underway about 0300 Monday morning, and headed south for the Dominican Republic, where a civil war had broken out. \"Fiske\" spent approximately one month patrolling the entrance to Santo Domingo Harbor, earning the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal for her efforts.\n\nBack in Newport, routine sea periods and a short period detached to Norfolk Naval Station for duty as escort to the newly commissioned , undergoing sea trials during the late summer of 1965. A relaxed leave and liberty policy was the rule for the next six months as crew changes were made prior to the \"Acey Deucy Squadron\" (DesRon 12) deploying to Vietnam.\n\nOn 19 January 1966, \"Fiske\" cast off all lines, and shifted colors as she got under way for Vietnam. In company with DesRon 12 - comprising DesDiv 121: (flagship), , \"Fiske\", and (DD-880); and DesDiv 122: , , , and (DD-888) - \"Fiske\" sailed south into the Caribbean, and through the Gulf of Mexico, transiting the Panama Canal on 25 January.\n\nDesRon 12 then visited San Diego Naval Station for approximately eight hours on 5 February to pick up equipment, then got underway for Hawaii. On 10 February 1966, \"Fiske\" and \"Dyess\" participated in the rescue of the pilot of a small plane that ran out of fuel on the way to Hawaii. The pilot ditched and was picked up by \"Dyess\". On 11 February, the Squadron moored at Pearl Harbor Naval Station, Hawaii. After five days in Hawaii, DesRon 12 got underway for the Philippine Islands, crossing the International Date Line on 18 February, as the crews entered the Realm of the Golden Dragon.\n\n\"Fiske\" and the rest of \"Acey Deucy Squadron\" rounded the northern islands of the Philippine Archipelago on 27 February, and made port at Subic Bay Naval Station, Republic of the Philippines, on 28 February.\n\nOn 11 March, \"Fiske\" was underway for her first War Patrol. \"Fiske\" entered the Combat Zone on 12 March, and the crew qualified on 13 March for an Income Tax Exemption, and the Vietnam Service Medal. On 18 March, the crew qualified for Hostile Fire Pay. The remainder of March, 1966 was spent as escort and plane guard for the , and the (CVA(N)-65) on \"Yankee Station\" off the \"I Corps Operational Area\".\n\nDetached from escort duties on 1 April, \"Fiske\" entered the Gulf of Tonkin for duty as a Search and Rescue (SAR) ship, answering the first SAR call on 2 April, an operation involving a pilot and a rescue helicopter from \"Enterprise\", though unable to assist, the helicopter with pilot aboard cleared North Vietnamese airspace en route to the \"Enterprise\".\n\nOn the morning of 4 April, while engaged in a SAR patrol, \"Fiske\" came under fire from a North Vietnamese heavy shore battery. Unable to locate the battery which was apparently masked behind some coastal hills, \"Fiske\" turned away and resumed her patrol.\n\n\"Fiske\" returned to Subic Bay where, on 21 April, a change of Command ceremony was held, with Cdr. William McKinley, USN, relieving Captain Ewing. After some port time in Subic Bay, \"Fiske\" was underway once again for another War Patrol. She joined the on 26 April, and operated with her for the next ten days, with two short trips into the Gulf of Tonkin for SAR duty. Leaving \"Hancock\", \"Fiske\" then re-joined \"Ranger\", and escorted her to Yokusuka Naval Station, Japan, arriving on 12 May, and not departing until 25 May for her third War Patrol due to casualties to the \"Ranger\", and to the . She entered the Combat Zone on 28 May.\n\nOn 30 May, \"Fiske\" took up duty outside the Combat Zone as an Anti-Air Warfare Picket ship. On 6 June, \"Fiske\" relieved of Naval Gunfire Support (NGFS) duties and escorted a truck convoy along the Coast Highway approximately 50 miles south to Da Nang, on her fourth War Patrol.\n\nBy 10 June, \"Fiske\" was moored for four days of liberty in Hong Kong, British Crown Colony. Departing for her fifth War Patrol on 14 June, \"Fiske\" arrived off Quảng Ngãi Province for NGFS duty the next day. She fired 119 rounds of 5 inch, 38 caliber ammunition at four target areas, destroying 18 structures, damaging trenches and ten other structures. The next day found \"Fiske\" on NGFS station off Da Nang, firing 57 rounds at four target areas, including Viet Cong caves, assembly areas, and one VC Observation Post. During a second mission that day an ammunition dump on a hill top was struck by \"Fiske's\" shells, which exploded the top of the hill.\n\n17 June found the \"Fiske\" supporting the 2nd Battalion, 4th Division, U.S. Marines in \"Operation Dodge\" in the area of the ancient Vietnamese capital of Huế. During the next four days of \"Operation Dodge\", \"Fiske\" fired night illumination missions. Subsequently, \"Fiske\" was detached and ordered south to the \"III Corps Operational Area\" for a mission requiring \"Fiske\" to transit up the Mekong River nearly to Saigon. The mission was cancelled at the last minute, but not before some hands witnessed nighttime \"Arc Light\" B-52 raids, and \"Puff\" firing its Gatling guns from the air to the ground in the area of the Mekong River delta.\n\nAfter an eight-day port call to Kaohsiung, Formosa, \"Fiske\" returned to Subic Bay on 5 July. Departing Subic Bay on the 6th, \"Fiske\" entered the Combat Zone for the sixth and final War Patrol, a short stint as a part of \"Operation Market Time\". Departing the Combat Zone later the same day, \"Fiske\" and the rest of the ships of DesRon 12 began the journey home.\n\nOn 8 July, the \"Pollywogs\" took over the ship, but revenge was taken the very next day. As \"Fiske\" crossed the Equator at Longitude 106 degrees, 27 minutes East, in the Singapore Strait, the segment of the crew that heretofore had never crossed the equator received justice from those who had: the \"Shellbacks\", and were mercifully, and most ceremonially converted from \"Pollywogs\" to \"Shellbacks\" after suffering the pains and torments required when entering the realm of King Neptune himself.\n\nDesRon 12 headed west, with stops at Penang, Malaysia, then Cochin, India, and Aden Protectorate, British Crown Colony, through the Red Sea (complete with a desert sandstorm), and the Suez Canal. Entering the Mediterranean Sea, she anchored in the port of Piraeus, Greece, the port of Athens. Two more stops in early August, at Barcelona, Spain on the 4th for three days, and Gibraltar, British Crown Colony on the 9th for one day, \"Fiske\" entered the Atlantic Ocean, last seen in late January, and returned to the welcoming bands and families on the pier at Newport on 17 August. During the cruise, the \"Fiske\" circumnavigated the world, steaming over 54 thousand miles (43 thousand by navigation). She spent 210 days away from homeport, 146 of which were at sea. Two days were spent transiting the two canals, Panama and Suez. \"Fiske\" replenished underway (UNREP) on 55 occasions, from Oilers, Refrigerator ships, and Cargo and Ammunition ships, and even completed an \"unrep triple play\" receiving oil, ammunition, and supplies all at one time from the new .\n\n\"Fiske\" then settled into her routine at Newport for a well-deserved rest, although an all-too-short one.\n\nIn May 1967 \"Fiske\" departed Newport, Rhode Island, for an extended Mediterranean cruise. The first stop along the way was a routine service stop at Gibraltar. Next came Malta for Liberty Call. Due to an escalating situation between Egypt and Israel over control of the Suez Canal \"Fiske\" was ordered to traverse the Suez Canal. After a day in Port Said she formed up with the other ships including the for the trip through the Suez Canal. This occurred at the beginning of the Six-Day War between Egypt and Israel.\n\nThe purpose of \"Fiske\"s presence was to protect US shipping interests in the area, assigned to monitor all ship traffic into and out of the Persian Gulf. In some cases boarding these ships as necessary. On occasion the ship was called upon to perform rescue missions when ships ran into trouble, as in one case when a freighter ran aground. \"Fiske\" remained in the Red Sea, Indian Ocean, and Strait of Hormuz areas until August. Liberty Ports of Call were unusual for US warships. They included Djibouti, French Somaliland; Massawa, Ethiopia; Bahrain; Karg Island, Madagascar; Diego-Suarez, and Mombasa, Kenya. \"Fiske\" treated Massawa as her \"homeport\" away from home.\n\nThe plan for \"Fiske\" to return to Newport was to include a stop at Caracas, Venezuela. These plans were quickly changed when the carrier suffered numerous explosions and fires on 29 July 1967 while operating in Vietnam. New orders were to for \"Fiske\" to rendezvous with \"Forrestal\" off the coast of South Africa and provide an escort for her to Mayport, Florida. \"Fiske\" finally returned to Newport, Rhode Island, in September 1967.\n\nIn October 1967, CDR James S. Brunson (USN) assumed command. After a few months \"Fiske\" was sent to Boston Naval Shipyard for a complete overhaul. She remained in the yards until May or June 1968. Late summer she again deployed for another Mediterranean cruise returning early in 1969.\n\n\"Fiske\" completed a six-month Middle East cruise July 1973 to her home port Newport, Rhode Island. She was then reassigned to the Navy Reserve Force, and her homeport moved to the Military Ocean Terminal, Bayonne, New Jersey (MOTBY).\n\n\"Fiske\" made many Reserve training weekend cruises from 1973 to 1976, including a 3-month Mediterranean cruise in 1974. Some ports visited were Naples, Barcelona, Malaga, and Rota. She was moored in Bayonne (New York Harbor) during the Bicentennial \"Tall Ships\".\n\n\"Fiske\" was overhauled again in 1976 and remained in the Naval Reserve force, stationed at Bayonne, New Jersey, (MOTBY).\n\nTransferred to Turkey on 5 June 1980. \"Fiske\" was stricken from the U.S. Naval Vessel Register on 6 August 1987.\n\nThe ship served in the Turkish Navy as TCG \"Piyalepasa\" (D350), named after Piyale Pasha. The ship was heavily damaged when she ran aground in late 1996; she was scrapped in 1999.\n\nThe USS Fiske is shown in , where a crewman is recording the action with an 8mm camera.\n\n\n", "id": "7727670", "categories": ["1945 ships", "Korean War destroyers of the United States", "Vietnam War destroyers of the United States", "Gearing-class destroyers of the United States Navy", "Cold War destroyers of the United States", "Ships transferred from the United States Navy to the Turkish Navy", "Ships built in Bath, Maine"], "title": "USS Fiske (DD-842)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727695", "text": "Ambergris Today\n\nAmbergris Today is a weekly newspaper published in San Pedro Town, Ambergris Caye, Belize. It is a free newspaper, marketed to tourists.\n\n", "id": "7727695", "categories": ["Free newspapers", "Weekly newspapers published in Belize", "Publications with year of establishment missing"], "title": "Ambergris Today"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727700", "text": "Bud Adams Equestrian Center\n\nThe Bud Adams Equestrian Center is a multi-purpose arena and equestrian center in Fort Pierce, Florida on the St. Lucie County Fairgrounds. It can seat up to 5,000, and in 2007 is the home to the Port St. Lucie Mustangs indoor football team.\n\nThe Equestrian Center, with 3,462 permanent seats, is used for a variety of events including rodeos, horse shows and concerts (seating up to 5,000). The arena measures 75,000 square feet (7,000 m²) of total space. All permanent seats are bleachers.\n\nIn addition to Adams Equestrian Center, other facilities at the St. Lucie County Fairgrounds include two lakes used for water skiing, three exhibit halls totalling , three barns with a total of , the largest is , a outdoor arena, concession stands, restrooms, and parking lots aplenty. The complex hosts, in addition to the above events, trade shows, conventions and other special events.\n\n", "id": "7727700", "categories": ["Fort Pierce, Florida", "Convention centers in Florida", "Indoor arenas in Florida", "Sports venues in St. Lucie County, Florida", "Music venues in Florida"], "title": "Bud Adams Equestrian Center"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727737", "text": "Ramon Berenguer\n\nRamon Berenguer or Raymond Berengar may refer to:\n\n\n", "id": "7727737", "categories": [], "title": "Ramon Berenguer"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727741", "text": "Automated cash handling\n\nAutomated cash handling is the process of dispensing, counting and tracking cash in a bank, retail, check cashing, payday loan / advance, casino or other business environment through specially designed hardware and software for the purposes of loss prevention, theft deterrence and reducing management time for oversight of cash drawer (till) operations.\n\nThe hardware consists of one or more of the following devices:\n\n\nIn an automated cash handling environment, a cashier or teller opens a cash drawer (till) at the start of shift by dispensing cash from the automated cash handling equipment. At the end of the shift, the cashier or teller deposits cash into the automated cash handling equipment which counts the cash and deposits it back into the safe. A manager sets permissions for each teller or cashier for dispensing and counting cash. A few automated cash handling systems allow for networking and remote operation (dispensing, counting, reporting). Remote operation of automated cash handling equipment facilitates cost savings and efficiency by centralizing all cash-related activity to one location that can remotely monitor and control cash operations.\n\n\nThere are several different roles Automatic cash handling systems play in an everyday economy. With few setbacks these systems do much more than dispense money, read checks, transfer money through bank accounts, etc. Automatic cash handling systems are now found in prisons to help inmates' relatives transfer money to prisoners. This process is done electronically and is much more efficient and faster than previously manual money transfers. These systems also help prisoners psyche by dissuading prisoners from committing fraud or stealing money. In 1987 automated cash handling systems started to become a favorite among retailers nationwide. The effectiveness and quick checkouts by customers encouraged to use debit/credit cards, acted as an attractant for customers. It would not be long until most businesses had installed automated cash handling systems as way to keep customers satisfied.\nIn states such as Oregon and New Jersey, where pumping your own gas is outlawed, automated cash handling has played an important role as a crime deterrent and economical sound system. Gas attendants now do not have to worry about being burglarized. With automated cash systems in place at these gas stations, everything is used by computer, making transactions faster than ever. These systems also allow petroleum companies to save money and ensure a higher level of security.\n\nAutomated cash systems have been changing the way society operates since becoming popular in the 1980s. Banks have evolved the way they operate around these advanced systems. Bankers are finding themselves less physically dealing with money; rather, they are finding themselves more in a sales position than a traditional banker who handles money. These automated systems now count most of the money and dispense the proper amount to bankers.\n\n", "id": "7727741", "categories": [], "title": "Automated cash handling"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727751", "text": "Randor\n\nRandor may refer to:\n\n\n\n", "id": "7727751", "categories": [], "title": "Randor"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727789", "text": "Caye Caulker Chronicles\n\nCaye Caulker Chronicles is the hometown paper of the village of Caye Caulker in the Belize District in the country of the same name. The editor is Wendy Auxillou, who is also the main writer, although other volunteers also contribute stories about local events.\n\nIt is published online at http://www.cayecaulkerchronicles.com/.\n\nCaye Caulker Chronicles reports on a series of topics, including Finance, Community, Criminal, Entertainment, Political, Weather, and World Breaking news.\n", "id": "7727789", "categories": ["Newspapers published in Belize", "Publications with year of establishment missing"], "title": "Caye Caulker Chronicles"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727792", "text": "Bykivnia graves\n\nThe Bykivnia graves () is a National Historic Memorial on the site of the former village of Bykivnia (, , ) on the outskirts of Kiev. During the Stalinist period in the Soviet Union, it was one of the unmarked mass grave sites where the NKVD, the Soviet secret police, disposed of thousands of executed \"enemies of the Soviet state\".\n\nThe number of dead bodies buried there is estimated between \"dozens of thousand,\" to 30,000, to 100,000 though some estimates place the number as high as 200,000.\n\nFrom the early 1920s until late 1940s throughout the Stalinist purges, the Soviet government hauled the bodies of tortured and killed political prisoners to the pine forests outside the village of Bykivnia and buried them in a grave that spanned . So far, 210 separate mass graves have been identified by Polish and Ukrainian archaeologists working at the site. During the Soviet retreat in the early stages of the Operation Barbarossa, the Red Army troops levelled the village to the ground. The mass grave site was discovered by the Germans along with many other such sites throughout the Soviet Union. However, following the discovery of the Katyn massacre, the burial sites of Bykivnya was no longer part of German propaganda. After the Soviet recapture of the area in the course of the Second Battle of Kiev in 1943, the site was yet again classified by the NKVD. In the 1950s the village was reconstructed as a suburb of Kiev. In the 1970s the Soviet authorities planned to construct a large bus station on the mass grave site, but the plan was abandoned.\n\nA document attesting to the origins of the Bykovnia victims was found by the Polish émigré historians in Nazi German archives after the war. Polish researchers estimate that, apart from the Soviet victims of the Great Terror, the site might be the final resting place of 3,435 Polish officers captured by the Red Army during the Soviet invasion of Poland together with Nazi Germany in 1939, most of whom were executed in the spring of 1940 with over 20,000 Polish officers and intellectuals in the Katyn massacre. However, as the Soviet authorities denied responsibility, there was no way to confirm that the victims of the Stalinist purges were indeed buried there. During the Soviet era the existence of the site was brought up to authorities numerous times with the most famous incident occurring in 1962. The Ukrainian poet Vasyl Symonenko was beaten up by law enforcement agents and died in hospital from kidney failure soon after.\n\nIt was not until the 1990s that the authorities of independent Ukraine confirmed the burial of thousands of victims there. On April 30, 1994, a large memorial to the victims of communism was opened in Bykivnia. Around the same time archaeological works started, with both Ukrainian and Polish scientists taking part. In 2001 the government of Viktor Yanukovych proclaimed the will to convert the Bykivnia woods into a \"State Historical-Memorial Complex \"Graves of Bykivnia\"\". The plan was brought to life by Viktor Yushchenko on May 17, 2006. In a step toward uncovering this part of Ukraine's history, Viktor Yushchenko became the first Ukrainian president to take part in the annual Day of Remembrance ceremony on May 21 to honor the estimated 100,000 people buried in the mass grave on the outskirts of Kiev. \"We must know the truth. Why did our nation lose more than 10 million people without a war?\" Yushchenko said during the 2006 event.\n\nSince 2006, Polish researchers have found a number of bodies of Poles, prisoners killed in spring 1940 during the Katyn massacre. Apart from bodies, Polish researchers found everyday use things, such as a comb, on which the owner, an unknown Polish officer, carved several names, such as Franciszek Strzelecki, Ludwik Dworak and Szczyrad ... (this potentially might be referring to Colonel Bronisław Mikołaj Szczyradłowski, deputy of commandant of Lwów's defense in September 1939). Also, a dog tag belonging to Sergeant Józef Naglik, soldier of the Skalat Battalion of the Border Defence Corps, was found at the same spot. All the names belong to the \"Ukrainian list\" of Katyn massacre victims, and serve as proof that Bykivnya is connected to the Katyn crime.\n\n\n", "id": "7727792", "categories": ["Massacres in the Soviet Union", "Cemeteries in Ukraine", "Protected areas established in 2001", "Protected areas of Ukraine", "Massacres in Ukraine", "Geography of Kiev Oblast", "Historic sites in Ukraine", "Prisoners of war massacres", "Political repression in the Soviet Union", "Monuments and memorials in Kiev", "Landmarks in Kiev", "Mass graves", "NKVD", "Massacres committed by the Soviet Union", "Soviet World War II crimes"], "title": "Bykivnia graves"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727809", "text": "Berenguer Ramon\n\nBerenguer Ramon or Berengar Raymond might refer to:\n\n\n", "id": "7727809", "categories": [], "title": "Berenguer Ramon"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727819", "text": "Coppa Italia Dilettanti\n\nThe Coppa Italia Dilettanti (Italian for: Italian Amateurs Cup) is an annual knock-out competition for teams from the fifth and sixth levels of Italian football: the Eccellenza and the Promozione. All ties except for the final, which is held at the Stadio Flaminio in Rome, are played on a home-and-away basis. The cup-winners are also awarded promotion to Serie D, the fourth-ranked league.\n\nPrior to the 1999–2000 season the competition also included teams from Serie D. There were then two parallel knockout competitions, one for \"Serie D\" teams and one for teams from the Eccellenza and Promozione, with the winners of each sub-tournament meeting in the final. Subsequently, Serie D have staged their own competition, the Coppa Italia Serie D, leaving only Eccellenza and Promozione teams to compete for the Coppa Italia Dilettanti.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7727819", "categories": ["Football cup competitions in Italy", "Recurring sporting events established in 1966"], "title": "Coppa Italia Dilettanti"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727837", "text": "Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion\n\nThe Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion is a Directorate-General of the European Commission. The Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion has the task of contributing to the development of a modern, innovative and sustainable European social model with more and better jobs in an inclusive society based on equal opportunities.\n\nThe Directorate-General is organised into 8 directorates:\n\n\n", "id": "7727837", "categories": ["Directorates-General in the European Commission"], "title": "Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727840", "text": "Samuel Pym\n\nSir Samuel Pym KCB (1778–1855) was a British admiral, brother of Sir William Pym.\n\nIn June 1788, Pym joined the Royal Navy as captain's servant of the frigate \"Eurydice\". He was promoted to lieutenant of the sloop \"Martin\", under Captain William Grenville Lobb, and served under Lobb aboard the and the \" Aimable\".\n\nFrom November 1798, Pym served aboard the \"Ethalion\" (36), taking part in the capture of the Spanish \"Thetis\" and \"Santa-Brigida\" in 1799. The \"Ethalion\" was wrecked on the Penmarks on Christmas Day.\n\nFrom April 1804, Pym served aboard the \"Mars\", and from June on the 74-gun \"Atlas\", under the overall command of Sir John Thomas Duckworth. Pym was decorated after the Battle of San Domingo, on 6 February 1806.\n\nIn October 1808, Pym took command of the 36-gun frigate \"Sirius\", in the squadron of Commodore Rowley.\n\nIn 1810, Pym was sent to the Isle de France (now Mauritius) to lead a squadron consisting of the frigates \"Sirius\", \"Iphigenia\", \"Nereide\", and the brig \"Staunch\". On 13 August, the squadron captured the Île de la Passe which commanded the entrance of Grand Port, and moved to blockade Port Louis. On 21 August, the squadron seized the East Indiaman \"Wyndham\", previously captured by the French, and learnt that a French frigate squadron had arrived at Grand Port.\n\nThe British squadron attempted to attack the French squadron at anchor and moved into the harbour. Entering it, the \"Sirius\" and \"Magicienne\" ran aground and became unmanoeuverable. The \"Nereide\" struck her colours before the French frigates, and the \"Sirius\" and \"Magicienne\" were scuttled by fire. The last ship of the squadron, the \"Iphigenia\", surrendered two days later. Pym, then at the Île de la Passe, was taken prisoner along with the whole garrison. The Battle of Grand Port became the only defeat of a British squadron against Napoleonic France. Pym was released in December when Sir Albemarle Bertie recaptured the Île de la Passe. He was court-martialled and found innocent of the defeat.\n\nIn February 1812, Pym was in command of the 74-gun ship \"Hannibal\", off Cherbourg, in May of the \"Niemen\", and in 1830 of HMS \"Kent\".\n\nPym was made a rear-admiral in 1837. He served as admiral-superintendent at Devonport from 1841 to 1846, and in the autumn of 1845 commanded the experimental squadron in the Channel. He was promoted to vice-admiral in 1847 and to full admiral in 1851.\n\n", "id": "7727840", "categories": ["Royal Navy personnel of the French Revolutionary Wars", "British naval commanders of the Napoleonic Wars", "1778 births", "1885 deaths", "Royal Navy admirals"], "title": "Samuel Pym"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727849", "text": "Keiichi Kitagawa\n\n", "id": "7727849", "categories": ["1967 births", "Sportspeople from Kyoto", "Living people", "500cc World Championship riders", "Japanese motorcycle racers", "Superbike World Championship riders"], "title": "Keiichi Kitagawa"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727851", "text": "2006 Catalan regional election\n\nThe 2006 Catalan regional election was held on Wednesday, 1 November 2006, to elect the 8th Parliament of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. All 135 seats in the Parliament were up for election.\n\nThe November 2006 Catalan parliament election was an early one (the original election date was due for the Fall of 2007, roughly one year after the actual early election took place). This was mostly a result of the uneasy and controversial drafting of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which further expanded the authority of the Catalan Government.\n\nThe Statute amendment was approved in a referendum on June 18, 2006 in which 73.24% of voters were in favour of the new Statute, 20.57% of the votes were against. This referendum was noted for its huge abstention: only 48.85% of the electorate participated in it.\n\nSince the 2003 elections a coalition of three left-wing parties, Socialists' Party of Catalonia (PSC), Republican Left of Catalonia (ERC) and Initiative for Catalonia Greens-United and Alternative Left (ICV-EUiA) had been in power, with Pasqual Maragall as President. However, in May 2006 ERC, following internal tensions, left the coalition due to its disagreement on the final draft of the Statute of Autonomy which they themselves had partially drafted, thus leaving Maragall without a majority and forcing him to call for this early election. On June 21, 2006 Maragall announced his intention to personally step down at the upcoming election, arguably due to the political erosion his government had suffered after an uneasy relationship with ERC.\n\nBesides the issue of Catalan nationalism, the main issues of the campaign were taxes, social security, housing and immigration.\n\nUnlike the previous 2003 election, when Convergence and Union (CiU) achieved a plurality of seats in the autonomous Parliament but did not get the highest number of votes (PSC achieved a narrow lead in votes, the discrepancy between votes number and seats being explained by the electoral law) in this occasion CiU won the elections both in seats and votes numbers. Still those weren't enough to have an absolute majority. Then, after coalition negotiations, the PSC, ERC and ICV-EUiA agreed to renew the three-party coalition that had been in power, which made PSC's leader José Montilla President.\n\nThis election saw a new party (Citizens-Party of the Citizenry) entering the autonomous parliament, which has increased the already high diversity of this parliament from five political parties with representation to now six, which contrasts with the increasingly bipartisan Spanish -and European in general- political scenario.\n\nThe Parliament of Catalonia was the devolved, unicameral legislature of the autonomous community of Catalonia, having legislative power in regional matters as defined by the Spanish Constitution and the Catalan Statute of Autonomy, as well as the ability to vote confidence in or withdraw it from a President of the Government. Voting for the Parliament was on the basis of universal suffrage, which comprised all nationals over eighteen, registered in Catalonia and in full enjoyment of their political rights.\n\nThe 135 members of the Parliament of Catalonia were elected using the D'Hondt method and a closed list proportional representation, with a threshold of 3 percent of valid votes—which included blank ballots—being applied in each constituency. Parties not reaching the threshold were not taken into consideration for seat distribution. Additionally, the use of the D'Hondt method might result in an effective threshold over three percent, depending on the district magnitude. Seats were allocated to constituencies, corresponding to the provinces of Barcelona, Girona, Lleida and Tarragona. Each constituency was allocated a fixed number of seats: 85 for Barcelona, 17 for Girona, 15 for Lleida and 18 for Tarragona.\n\nThe electoral law provided that parties, federations, coalitions and groupings of electors were allowed to present lists of candidates. However, groupings of electors were required to secure the signature of at least 1 percent of the electors registered in the constituency for which they sought election. Electors were barred from signing for more than one list of candidates. Concurrently, parties and federations intending to enter in coalition to take part jointly at an election were required to inform the relevant Electoral Commission within ten days of the election being called.\n\nThe term of the Parliament of Catalonia expired four years after the date of its previous election, unless it was dissolved earlier. The President of the Government was required to call an election fifteen days prior to the date of expiry of parliament, with election day taking place within from forty to sixty days after the call. The previous election was held on 16 November 2003, which meant that the legislature's term would have expired on 16 November 2007. The election was required to be called no later than 1 November 2007, with it taking place up to the sixtieth day from the call, setting the latest possible election date for the Parliament on Monday, 31 December 2007.\n\nThe President of the Government had the prerogative to dissolve the Parliament of Catalonia and call a snap election, provided that no motion of no confidence was in process and that dissolution did not occur before one year had elapsed since a previous one under this procedure. In the event of an investiture process failing to elect a regional President within a two-month period from the first ballot, the Parliament was to be automatically dissolved and a fresh election called.\n\nBelow is a list of the main parties and coalitions which contested the election:\n\nThe table below lists voting intention estimates in reverse chronological order, showing the most recent first and using the dates when the survey fieldwork was done, as opposed to the date of publication. Where the fieldwork dates are unknown, the date of publication is given instead. The highest percentage figure in each polling survey is displayed with its background shaded in the leading party's colour. If a tie ensues, this is applied to the figures with the highest percentages. The \"Lead\" column on the right shows the percentage-point difference between the parties with the highest percentages in a given poll. When available, seat projections are also displayed below the voting estimates in a smaller font. 68 seats were required for an absolute majority in the Parliament of Catalonia.\n\n", "id": "7727851", "categories": ["Regional elections in Catalonia", "2006 in Catalonia", "2006 regional elections in Spain"], "title": "2006 Catalan regional election"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727863", "text": "K+\n\nK+ or K may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7727863", "categories": [], "title": "K+"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727875", "text": "I Rivers\n\nI Rivers is the pen name of an anonymous Singapore-born Malaysian author, whose first novel, \"Black Magic Woman # Zero Point Negro\" was published in 2004 by Fugue State Press.\n\nAlthough biographical details are scant, an article by Thor Kah Hoong states that Rivers' actual first name is Joe, and that he studied economics in the United States in the early 1990s; he may be presumed to have been born around 1970. He is married and is the father of one child.\n\nHis first novel was described by Arnold Skemer of ZYX Magazine as follows: \"Certainly hallucinatory and oft breaking into song, this novel goes in many directions with names of characters from the realm of fantasy, such as 'Mother Mary,' 'Wild Flowers,' 'Fire Worm,' with verbiage of popular music sprinkled in. Word play is rampant, Greek choruses of extravagant supplications, summonings of imagery, evocations, Q & A of acute tension. The reader wanders on a sea of rhetoric, drifting into ever more colorful tempests of verbal fantasy. In this sea of verbiage, the next plot twist is the next verbal conundrum and spasm of preachment, the next dollop of mad invocation. It goes on from page to page, a never-ending kaleidoscope of story in labyrinths of twists and turns of utterance. In the background is the mad laughter of the funhouse; in the foreground, the strange declamations of disembodied voices that take center stage, then rapidly disappear into the variegated swarm of verbal encounter.\"\n", "id": "7727875", "categories": ["Malaysian writers", "Postmodern writers", "Pseudonymous writers", "Living people"], "title": "I Rivers"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727895", "text": "Jersey Shore, Pine Creek and Buffalo Railway\n\nThe Jersey Shore, Pine Creek and Buffalo Railway was a railroad built in the early 1880s to give the New York Central and Hudson River Railroad access to the coal regions around Clearfield, Pennsylvania, United States. It was originally planned as part of a connecting line between the East Coast of the United States and Buffalo, New York.\n\nThe railroad was incorporated on February 17, 1870 to run from the vicinity of Williamsport to Jersey Shore, up Pine Creek and down the Allegheny River to Port Allegany, as part of a route to Buffalo.\nOn December 1, 1871, Sobieski Ross, one of the JSPC&B's promoters, wrote to George B. McClellan, extolling the advantages of the route. McClellan was then president of the Atlantic and Great Western Railroad, which shipped petroleum to New York City over the Erie Railway. The Erie's service was felt to be unsatisfactory, and the A&GW potentially interested in a new partner. The eastern end of the A&GW was at Salamanca, New York, about from Port Allegany along the Allegheny River, and could easily be extended along the river to connect with the JSPC&B. At Newberry, near Williamsport, traffic could be routed onto the Catawissa Railroad and then the Central Railroad of New Jersey to reach the New York area.\n\nRoss's letter gives a good idea of the route planned. He says that it would descend on the western side via Mill Creek, which meets the Allegheny River at Coudersport. The closest approach to the Pine Creek watershed would leave Mill Creek to climb along Nelson Run. A summit tunnel long was planned, which would suffice to carry a line from the headwaters of Nelson Run into Splash Dam Hollow, then down Lyman Run to the West Branch Pine Creek, reaching the main stream of Pine Creek at Galeton.\n\nBesides the JSPC&B's value as a trunk line, Ross hopefully anticipated the development of traffic along the line from lumbering, coal mining, and iron manufacturing. In the end, only lumbering and tanning would play a significant role in the industry of the area. The coal beds along the Allegheny River west of Coudersport were proclaimed \"worthless\" by the State Geological Survey in 1885, nor could the local iron ore deposits be economically worked.\n\nWhile grading of the JSPC&B began on June 12, 1873, the Panic of 1873 soon brought a halt to construction. The unfinished line appeared in other grandiose rail schemes: the Gaines and State Line Rail Road, incorporated 1875, would have built north from the JSPC&B at Gaines as part of a line to Hornellsville and Geneva, New York.\n\nDuring the early 1880s, the New York Central Railroad (NYC) and a consortium of coal companies from Tioga County, Pennsylvania and New York State embarked upon a bold venture. The coal companies were plagued by labor disputes, and the deposits they mined were diminishing. The NYC feared that its rival, the Pennsylvania Railroad, would use its control over coal shipments from central Pennsylvania to inflate the price of that fuel. The solution decided upon was that the coal companies, backed by the NYC, would build a new rail line into the Clearfield Coalfield and open new mines there. Coal would move north over the new line to the NYC. The JSPC&B would be a key link in the new extension. It would also link the NYC to its ally, the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad, via the latter's Catawissa Railroad subsidiary at Newberry.\n\nGaining control of the JSPC&B, the NYC exploited a provision of the railroad's charter allowing for branches of up to thirty miles in any county traversed by the main line. The new connection would leave the Corning, Cowanesque and Antrim Railroad at Stokesdale Junction, near Wellsboro, and follow Marsh Creek to Pine Creek and the original route at Ansonia, and then pass downstream to Jersey Shore and the Reading connection at Newberry.\n\nThe remainder of the grading was sold off, and in fact was the first part of the route to operate: the Coudersport and Port Allegany Railroad opened on the old grade between the two towns in its name in 1882. The JSPC&B continued construction on the route from Newberry to Stokesdale Junction, which ran through the spectacular Pine Creek Gorge (also known as the Grand Canyon of Pennsylvania) below Ansonia. The new line began regular service on June 4, 1883 and was opened over its whole length on July 1, 1883. However, the New York Central did not choose to operate the JSPC&B directly. On December 18, 1882, it was leased to the Fall Brook Coal Company from the date of completion (officially June 30, 1883) for twenty years. The company's name was changed to the Pine Creek Railway on February 6, 1884.\n\nMost of the rest of the planned route between Ansonia and Coudersport saw track laid by the Buffalo and Susquehanna Railroad and dependent logging lines. However, it was not connected so as to form a through route, and the summit tunnel was never built.\n\nAs the Pine Creek Railway, the new line formed an important part of the Fall Brook's system. The Fall Brook already leased the Corning, Cowanesque & Antrim and a series of NYC-controlled lines in New York, giving it a continuous line from Tioga County to the NYC main line at Lyons, New York. On July 1, 1892, the Fall Brook Coal Company separated its railroad and coal interests, transferring the Pine Creek Ry. lease to the new Fall Brook Railway. However, the independent operation of these lines by the Fall Brook was not to last. In 1895, the NYC began to investigate buying out the Fall Brook, which now formed a vital link between the New York Central main line and the NYC-controlled Beech Creek Railroad at Jersey Shore. The NYC ultimately succeeded in buying up the Fall Brook Railway, and took over the Pine Creek Railway lease on May 1, 1899. On February 4, 1909, the Pine Creek was merged with other elements of the former Fall Brook system to form the Geneva, Corning and Southern Railroad, which in turn was merged into the New York Central on December 22, 1914.\n\nAfter the 1899 takeover, the former Fall Brook lines were operated by the NYC as the Fall Brook District, Pennsylvania Division. The Pine Creek line was one of those taken over by Conrail in 1976, but the last train ran on the route on October 7, 1988. After the removal of the tracks, the right-of-way was converted to the Pine Creek Rail Trail.\n", "id": "7727895", "categories": ["Railway companies disestablished in 1884", "Transportation in Tioga County, Pennsylvania", "Defunct Pennsylvania railroads", "Railway companies established in 1870", "Predecessors of the New York Central Railroad"], "title": "Jersey Shore, Pine Creek and Buffalo Railway"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727911", "text": "List of Welsh towns twinned with a Breton town\n\nThe following table lists the names of Welsh communities which have concluded town twinning agreements with communities in Brittany:\n\n\n", "id": "7727911", "categories": ["Wales geography-related lists", "Lists of twin towns and sister cities in Europe", "Towns in Wales", "Communes in Brittany"], "title": "List of Welsh towns twinned with a Breton town"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727917", "text": "Raymond Challinor\n\nRaymond Corrick \"Ray\" Challinor (9 July 1929 – 30 January 2011) was a Marxist historian of the British labour movement.\n\nChallinor was born in Stoke-on-Trent. Both of his parents were political activists, his father was secretary of his branch of the Labour Party, and his mother was a member of the Independent Labour Party (ILP). Both of his parents had also left their Methodist roots and were agnostic. He became a voracious reader and collector of books and pamphlets in his youth. Challinor said that the daily diet in the Challinor household was \"politics, for breakfast, dinner and supper.\" His parents separated when he was 11 and he was sent to live with his aunt.\n\nChallinor attended Crewe Grammar School until his parents' separation, and was then sent off to board at the George Fox Quaker School in Lancaster. Pupils were actually encouraged to take part in local politics and in 1941 he became involved in the Lancaster by-election, supporting the Independent Labour Party candidate Fenner Brockway. Challinor's first political allegiance was to the ILP, and in 1946, at the age of 18, Challinor became attracted to the Revolutionary Communist Party (RCP), a group within the ILP. During his National Service, Challinor registered as a conscientious objector and so worked the lands instead of joining the military.\n\nChallinor moved back to Stoke-on-Trent and worked on a local newspaper. During this period, the RCP fractured three ways, and Challinor joined the group under Tony Cliff named the Socialist Review Group. Later, this became the International Socialists (IS), and from the 1970s it was the Socialist Workers Party (SWP). He also struck up a friendship with Stan Newens, later a Labour MP, who had chosen the Staffordshire pits for his National Service. As a young activist, Challinor had formed the opinion that the Soviet Union was not a workers' state. At the age of 18, he wrote that \"it is criminal to call Russia Socialist. This harms not only the cause of the Russian worker but also that of Revolutionary Socialism. The only thing to do is to tell the truth about Russia and to show it has nothing in common with Socialism.\"\n\nAfter the formation of the Socialist Review Group, Challinor became a member of the editorial committee of a new newspaper, \"Socialist Review\". In 1952, he started a four-year degree at the University College of North Staffordshire at Keele. He became involved with the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND) and the Committee of 100, attending the first Aldermaston March in 1958. He was briefly a local councillor for the Labour Party, and was selected then deselected as a parliamentary candidate for Nantwich, his anti-Labour writings too much for the party headquarters.\n\nIn 1952, Challinor met Mabel Brough in the Labour League of Youth. They married in 1957, and had one son, Russell, born in 1962.\n\n\n", "id": "7727917", "categories": ["British Marxist historians", "Socialist Workers Party (UK) members", "Labour Party (UK) councillors", "British Trotskyists", "2011 deaths", "1929 births", "British conscientious objectors", "Councillors in Staffordshire", "British historians"], "title": "Raymond Challinor"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727921", "text": "Jean d'Estrées\n\nJean d'Estrées (; 1666 – 3 March 1718) was a French priest and politician. He was the son of Jean II d'Estrées and his wife Marie Marguerite Morin.\n\nHe was born in Paris, the nephew of Cardinal César d'Estrées and brother of Marshal Victor Marie d'Estrées, both academics. In 1692, Jean d'Estrées was given his first diplomatic mission, being responsible for the assurance of Portuguese neutrality during the War of the Grand Alliance. Earning a doctorate in theology in 1698, he became the abbot of Évron. In 1703, he joined his uncle in Spain, who was the ambassador to France, and succeeded him after two years. In 1711 he was elected to l'Académie française, which had searched for a suitable candidate to replace his well-known predecessor, Nicolas Boileau-Despréaux.\n\nJean d'Estrées was also named to the \"Conseil d'État\" (Council of State) and the Archbishopric of Cambrai in 1716, but died before his coronation.\n\n", "id": "7727921", "categories": ["Recipients of the Order of the Holy Spirit", "French abbots", "People from Paris", "French Roman Catholic priests", "1718 deaths", "1666 births", "Members of the Académie française", "17th-century Roman Catholic priests", "18th-century Roman Catholic priests"], "title": "Jean d'Estrées"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727938", "text": "Mexican Train\n\nMexican Train is a game played with number dominoes. The object of the game is for a player to play all the dominoes from his or her hand onto one or more chains, or \"trains\", emanating from a central hub or \"station\". The game's most popular name comes from a special optional train that belongs to all players. However, the game can be played without the Mexican Train; such variants are generally called \"Private Trains\" or \"Domino Trains\". It is related to the game Chicken Foot.\n\nA double-twelve set of dominoes is marketed as the standard for Mexican Train, and accommodates up to 8 players. Other sets are commonly used as well. The following alternate sets are common, depending on the number of people playing:\n\nIn addition to dominoes, the game also requires:\n\nMany sets of dominoes include a station and special train-shaped tokens for markers, and packaged games with a central \"station\" and custom tokens are available. However, the station piece is not strictly needed, and anything from coins to poker chips to even pieces of candy or slips of paper can be used as markers.\n\nThe object of all Trains games is to be the first player to place all of their dominoes. Dominoes may be placed onto the player's train, onto the Mexican train if available, or on the trains of other players under special circumstances. The middle tile counts as the start of a player's multiple tile train.\n\nAt the start of each round, the dominoes are placed face side down, shuffled, and drawn by players to form their hands. Using the double-nine set, \nplayers draw dominoes as follows:\n\nAny remaining dominoes are placed to one side, forming the \"boneyard\".\n\nWith a standard double-twelve set the double twelve is placed in the station. In each successive round the next lower double is used until all doubles are used. The double-blank is the final round.\n\nPlay continues to the left. Each person lays one legally placed domino per turn, or two if the player's first domino is a double. If they are unable to, they must draw a domino from the boneyard. If they are able to lay that domino, they must do so immediately. Otherwise, their turn is over and play continues to the left, each player trying to place all their dominoes by playing matching dominoes one at a time, end to end.\n\nA train can be as long as the players can make it; it only ends when all dominoes that could match its endpoint have already been played. As a result, trains can become quite long, especially with an extended domino set. It is acceptable to \"bend\" the train 90° or 180° to keep the train on the playing surface, as long as it does not interfere with the endpoints of other trains.\n\nAll trains begin the game as \"public,\" and all players may play on them. When a player plays a domino on their train it then becomes \"private.\" When a player draws a domino and is unable to play it, they must mark their train as \"public\" by placing a marker on their train. If a player is deemed to have made a strategic error the highest score of that round is added to theirs.\n\nPlayers have the option, whether they can play on their own train or not, of playing a domino on any train currently marked \"public.\" When a player with a \"public\" train adds a domino to it, it becomes \"private\" again and may not be played on except by the train's owner.\n\nThe Mexican Train is an additional train that anyone may play on during their turn. They can start the train by playing a domino matching the engine (i.e. the double played at the beginning of the round) or add to the train. Mexican trains can be added as long as a space remains.\n\nWhen a double is played, it is placed perpendicular to the train. Subsequently, adding a domino to the double is called \"finishing\", \"satisfying the double\" or \"covering the double.\"\n\nThe player who played the double must take another turn. This additional turn follows exactly the same rules as any normal turn. They may play anywhere they like, and do not have to \"finish the double\" on this turn. They may play elsewhere and, provided they make a legal play, do not have to mark their train for not finishing the double (unless the double was played on their own train). Blanks are wild. Like any other turn, if they cannot play they must draw a domino and mark their train as \"public\".\n\nIf a double remains unfinished after it has been played, the train becomes a \"public\" train. No other train can be added to by any player until someone \"finishes the double\". Play passes to the next player who can legally play on this train (if the train is theirs, or if they can legally play on \"public\" trains). If they cannot \"finish the double\", they must draw a domino, and if they cannot play it on the double, their own train becomes \"public\". Play continues like this until someone \"finishes the double\". Single and double blanks are considered wilds.\n\nBranching on doubles as in Chicken Foot is allowed as an option (see Variations below).\n\nAt the end of each round, the player going out receives 0 points, while all other players receive the sum of all pips (dots) on their dominoes. The person with the fewest points after all thirteen rounds have been played is the winner. In the case of a tie, the person with the most 0-point rounds is the winner. (If this is still a tie, the person with the lowest round total other than 0 is the winner).\n\nWith four, six or eight players, the game can be played in teams of two, with partners sitting opposite each other. Rules are identical except that a player's train and their partner's train are considered one and the same (they will usually extend from opposite sides of the station), and thus a player can play on their own end or their partner's, and neither end becomes public until neither partner can play a tile. Scoring is also handled in pairs, with the player who went out scoring zero for their team (even though their partner will have dominoes remaining) and other teams summing their scores for a team score.\n\n\nThere are a number of other versions of the rules for Mexican Train, varying the number of dominoes drawn by each player, the rules for playing doubles, or the number of tiles that can be played during one turn. For example:\n\nFast Game variation: After the starting double has been placed, turns are ignored, and each player focuses on making their own train as long as possible. Once everyone has made as long of a train as they can, play reverts to turns, using the rules listed above. This speeds up the game, but eliminates some of the strategies of playing doubles.\n\nDelayed First Turn variation: Similar to the Fast Game variation listed above, instead of simultaneously, each person takes turns playing as many dominoes on their train as possible. Any player that is unable to play on their first turn draws a domino, and may then begin their first turn or pass. When a player who has passed finally starts their train, they may play as many dominoes as they can string together. After starting their train, players are only permitted to play one domino at a time as usual, unless playing a double. This version allows a player to save their \"first turn\" string of dominoes for when they have a chance, instead of being stuck with all dominoes from the beginning.\n\nBranching Doubles variation: Once a double has been satisfied, players may continue to branch off of the double in two more directions, meaning the double will have a matching endpoint on all four sides. Often, players like to angle these branches at a 45-degree angle to accommodate for more room. This variant gives players more choice and speeds up the game.\n\nSwan Drive variation: A player who can play on their own train may also play one tile on each subsequent public train in clockwise order. Each public train must be played on in order to continue in this manner, and only one tile per train may be played (unless a double must be finished). Once a player cannot play on the next public train, or has looped around to their own train, their turn ends. While playing on each public train, the player may choose to play on the Mexican train or skip it when he comes to it, making the placement of the train somewhat strategical. This version makes for a much faster game.\n\n", "id": "7727938", "categories": [], "title": "Mexican Train"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727943", "text": "USS Fiske\n\nTwo ships of the United States Navy have borne the name USS \"Fiske\", in honor of Rear Admiral Bradley A. Fiske.\n\n", "id": "7727943", "categories": [], "title": "USS Fiske"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727948", "text": "Danand\n\nIn Irish mythology, Danand or Donann is the daughter of Delbáeth, son of Ogma, (Not to be confused with the similarly named Danu, the primordial mother.) \nDanand is the mother of Brian, Iuchar, and Iucharba by her own father, who is occasionally given the name Tuireann or Tuirell as well.\n", "id": "7727948", "categories": [], "title": "Danand"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727953", "text": "Santa Claus Village\n\nSanta Claus Village is an amusement park in Rovaniemi in the Lapland region of Finland. It was opened in 1985.\n\nSanta Claus Village is located about northeast of Rovaniemi and about from the Rovaniemi Airport.\n\nThe first original home of Santa Claus was Korvatunturi. In 1985, Rovaniemi was declared as an official hometown of Santa Claus.\n\n\nThe Santa Claus Park that is connected to the Santa Claus Village was in 2007 awarded by Topworld International and placed as the second best Travel Adventure in Finland. So long in 2008, it still holds second position after Topworld invited travellers to vote for their own Top 10 list over adventures.\n", "id": "7727953", "categories": ["Rovaniemi", "1985 establishments in Finland", "Christmas in Finland", "Buildings and structures in Lapland (Finland)", "Tourist attractions in Lapland (Finland)", "Amusement parks in Finland", "Santa Claus"], "title": "Santa Claus Village"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727955", "text": "Directorate-General for Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs\n\nThe Directorate-General for Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs is a Directorate-General of the European Commission. The Enterprise Directorate-General works on creating an environment in which European firms can thrive. The improvement of the business environment is to lead to a growth in productivity and subsequently create the jobs and wealth necessary to achieve the objectives set by the European Council in Lisbon in March 2000.\n\n\n", "id": "7727955", "categories": ["Directorates-General in the European Commission"], "title": "Directorate-General for Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727976", "text": "EADA Business School\n\nEADA Business School () is an international business school located in Barcelona.\n\nIt was founded in 1957, and became one of the first Spanish institutions to run manager training programs for the business community.\n\nEADA Business School is one of the few business schools in Spain which has Financial Times ranking and is a member of CFA Institute partner program.\n\nIn its first two years, EADA was set up as a consultancy in business management and administration. Two years later, it extended its activities to continuous specialist training in the field of business management and administration.\nIn 1967, it became a public limited company, the shareholders were its founders, faculty and non-faculty personnel were working for the institution.\nAfter 1990, EADA moved to the Aragó Street building and also acquired the Collbató Residential Center. Since 1999, the school has reinforced its presence in the Latin American market and has set up various branches in different countries.\n\nEADA is a Private University Foundation.\n\nEADA runs Masters Full Time and Masters Part Time courses in different management areas: Marketing, Human Resources, Finance and Operations.\nEADA also runs high level training courses for executives: the PDG, General management Program (set up in 1967) for senior managers and the PDA (Management and Administration Program) for junior and middle managers. \nEADA also runs Manager Development programs.\n\nEADA business school runs various MBA programs.\n\n\n", "id": "7727976", "categories": [], "title": "EADA Business School"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727992", "text": "Uruguay at the 1998 Winter Olympics\n\nUruguay competed in the Winter Olympic Games for the first time at the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan.\n\n\n", "id": "7727992", "categories": ["Nations at the 1998 Winter Olympics", "1998 in Uruguayan sport", "Uruguay at the Winter Olympics by year"], "title": "Uruguay at the 1998 Winter Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728015", "text": "Bill Kennedy (actor)\n\nWillard \"Bill\" Kennedy (June 27, 1908 – January 27, 1997) was an American actor, voice artist, and host of the long-running Detroit-based television show, \"Bill Kennedy at the Movies.\" He began his career as a staff announcer in radio; Kennedy's voice narrates the opening of the television series \"Adventures of Superman.\"\n\nKennedy was born June 27, 1908 in Cleveland Heights, Ohio.\n\nKennedy began his media career as a staff announcer at \"WWJ, The Detroit News.\"\n\nIn the 1940s, he became a Warner Bros. contract player, appearing in dozens of Hollywood movies from 1941 through 1955. He was often cast as a police officer or detective. He played Thierache, the Executioner, who sets fire to Joan (played by Ingrid Bergman) in \"Joan of Arc\" (1948), but recounted that after the picture previewed in a neighborhood popular with gays, his one line – \"We need more fagots\" (a term referring to a bundle of sticks used to burn someone at the stake) – generated loud laughter from the audience during the execution scene. He also played opposite Cary Grant in \"Destination Tokyo\".\n\nFor the \"Superman\" TV series, he was the announcer during its several year run. He appeared off-screen (uncredited) as the wrestling announcer in the 1952 episode, \"No Holds Barred;\" and on-screen, as one of the radio announcers (uncredited) in the 1953 episode, \"Crime Wave\"; and as the racetrack announcer in the 1955 episode \"Joey\". He is believed to have provided the voice on the phone for the 1954 episode, \"Beware the Wrecker\". Denver Pyle played the part on-screen and had a couple of spoken lines. Kennedy also appeared as a guest star in numerous series, such as \"The Lone Ranger,\" \"The Cisco Kid,\" \"The Gene Autry Show,\" and \"Death Valley Days.\"\n\nIn 1956 Kennedy returned from California to the Detroit area as host of \"Bill Kennedy's Showtime\" at CKLW-TV, based directly across the Detroit River in Windsor, Ontario. The musical standard, \"Just in Time\" was his theme song. In 1969 he moved to WKBD and continued hosting the show, named \"Bill Kennedy at the Movies,\" until retiring to Florida in 1983.\n\nOn his afternoon TV program, he showed old movies, and provided anecdotes about the actors and the production of the movies. These came in large part from his own Hollywood experience. He had a deadpan, sardonic style which many found refreshing, somewhat similar to that of Ed Sullivan. He expressed his opinion of the movies, making comments such as \"We have a moderately good picture for you today\". He introduced the featured film, \"Dragonwyck\" (1946), by saying, \"Today we have one of the most boring movies ever made.\" He took on-air calls from viewers, which was a highlight of his daily shows. When Kennedy showed a film in which he had a part, he would talk at every break about the role, but always with a wink and good humor. Kennedy would also interview stars of some of the movies that he would host when those stars would be visiting the Detroit area and include it with that days film broadcast.\n\nHe died January 27, 1997 in Palm Beach, Florida of emphysema.\n", "id": "7728015", "categories": ["Warner Bros. contract players", "1997 deaths", "American male television actors", "American television personalities", "Television personalities from Detroit", "Radio personalities from Detroit", "1908 births", "People from Cleveland Heights, Ohio", "American male film actors", "Male actors from Ohio"], "title": "Bill Kennedy (actor)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728038", "text": "HMS Worcester\n\nEight ships and a training establishment of the Royal Navy have borne the name HMS \"Worcester\", after the English city of Worcester:\n\n\n", "id": "7728038", "categories": [], "title": "HMS Worcester"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728040", "text": "York Mystery Plays\n\nThe York Mystery Plays, more properly the York Corpus Christi Plays, are a Middle English cycle of 48 mystery plays or pageants covering sacred history from the creation to the Last Judgment. They were traditionally presented on the feast day of Corpus Christi (a movable feast on the Thursday after Trinity Sunday, between 23 May and 24 June) and were performed in the city of York, from the mid-fourteenth century until their suppression in 1569. The plays are one of four virtually complete surviving English mystery play cycles, along with the Chester Mystery Plays, the Towneley/Wakefield plays and the N-Town plays. Two long, composite, and late mystery pageants have survived from the Coventry cycle and there are records and fragments from other similar productions that took place elsewhere. A manuscript of the plays, probably dating from between 1463 and 1477, is still intact and stored at the British Library.\n\nThere is no record of the first performance of the mystery plays, but they were recorded as celebrating the festival of Corpus Christi in York in 1376, by which time the use of pageant wagons had already been established. The plays were organised, financed and performed by the York Craft Guilds (\"Mystery\" is a play on words, representing a religious truth or rite, and its Middle English meaning of a trade or craft). The wagons were paraded through the streets of York, stopping at 12 playing stations, designated by the city banners.\n\nThe cycle uses many different verse forms, most have rhyme, a regular rhythm with fairly short lines and frequent alliteration. The balance of critical opinion is in favour of several clerics being responsible for their authorship, one of whom is conventionally known as the \"York Realist\". It comprises 48 pageants that were originally presented on carts and wagons dressed for the occasion. In some accounts there are as many as 56 pageants. They told stories from the Old and New Testaments, from the Creation to the Last Judgement. The plays continued after the Reformation when in 1548, the feast of Corpus Christi was abolished in England. The plays were accommodated in to the new religious orthodoxy by cutting scenes honouring the Virgin, but were suppressed in 1569.\n\nTraditionally, an individual guild took responsibility for a particular play.\n\nThe authorship of the plays is unknown, but analysis of the style allows scholars to recognise where authorship changes. One group of plays, concerned with the Passion has been attributed to a writer called \"The York Realist\" and the name has come into general use. The eight plays concerned are\nThey are all written in vigorous alliterative verse as are other plays in the cycle. The distinctive feature, apart from the high quality of the writing, is the attention to incidental detail in the story-telling and in the subtle portrayal of the negative characters, Pilate, Herod, Annas and Caiaphas. Playwright Peter Gill expressed the view that \"If it hadn’t been for the York Realist, Shakespeare would have been a second rate writer like Goethe\".\n\nAfter their suppression in Tudor times, the plays remained little known until Lucy Toulmin Smith obtained permission from the Earl of Ashburnham to study the manuscript of the plays in his possession and publish her transcription together with an introduction and short glossary in 1885.\n\nIn 1909, the York Historic Pageant included a parade of guild banners accompanying a wagon representing the Nativity through the streets. In December the same year a selection of six plays was performed as a fund-raising venture for St Olave's Church, York. The play cycle was revived on a much larger scale in 1951 in the York Festival of the Arts, part of the Festival of Britain celebrations. It was performed on a fixed stage in the ruins of St Mary's Abbey in the Museum Gardens and directed by E. Martin Browne. The music, written for the occasion by James Brown, was directed by Allan Wicks. The part of Jesus was played by Joseph O'Conor, (although to preserve mystique he was not named in the programme) and other roles were taken by amateurs. In the interests of comprehensibility, the text was abbreviated and modernised by Canon Purvis who went on to lead the Borthwick Institute at the University of York, and produced a modernisation of the complete text.\n\nFollowing the success of the 1951 production, said to be \"the most widely applauded festival event in the country, with over 26,000 people witnessing the Plays\", selections from the cycle were staged in the same location at three-year intervals, lengthening to four-year intervals, until 1988. They have aroused academic interest and publications. Usually directed by a professional and with a professional actor playing Jesus, the rest of the cast were local amateurs. Ian McShane played Lucifer/Satan in 1963. Some amateur actors such as Judi Dench became professionals. Directors included E. Martin Browne again (1954, 1957, 1966), David Giles (1960), William Gaskill (1963), Edward Taylor (1969, 1973), Jane Howell (1976), Patrick Garland (1980), Toby Robertson (1984) and Steven Pimlott (1988).\nThe role of Jesus was played a second time by Joseph O'Conor (1954), then by Brian Spink (1957), Tom Criddle, (1960), Alan Dobie (1963), John Westbrook (1966), John Stuart Anderson (1973), local York man David Bradley (1976), Christopher Timothy (1980), Simon Ward (1984) and Victor Banerjee (1988).\n\nIn 1992 the production was moved in a modern production to the York Theatre Royal, with Robson Green playing Christ and a script adapted by Liz Lochhead. The 1996 production in the same place was all-amateur, with the part of Jesus played by local solicitor Rory Mulvihill, and the script shortened by Lochhead. For 2000, the interest of the Dean of York, Very Rev Raymond Furnell, led him to offer the use of York Minster for the most ambitious production so far.\n\nIn 2000 a large-scale performance was staged in York Minster, as \"The York Millennium Mystery Plays\". Directed by Gregory Doran, with a script adapted by Mike Poulton, and with Ray Stevenson in the role of Christ, the production was the most expensive and wide-reaching project in the history of the plays' modern revival. The first half began in heaven with the story of the fall of Lucifer, followed by the creation of the world, the fall of Adam and Eve, Noah's Ark (with impressive and memorable representations of the animals and the flood) and the story of Abraham and Isaac. From the New Testament there came the annunciation and nativity of Jesus, the massacre of the innocents, Christ's childhood, baptism, temptation and ministry, and his entrance into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday. The second half concentrated on the capture and trial of Christ, and his crucifixion, resurrection and ascension. The production ended, as is traditional, with the Last Judgement.\n\nThe production ran for a month, with a total audience of 28,000. Aside from the professional director and actor, Ray Stevenson, the cast was made up of amateurs, mainly from the York area. More than fifty children also took part. Original music was written for the production by local composer Richard Shephard.\n\nFor 2012 the Mystery plays returned to the Museum Gardens, their home until 1988. The script was adapted by Mike Kenny and direction was by Damian Cruden of York Theatre Royal and Paul Burbridge of Riding Lights Theatre Company. The show involved more than 1,000 local volunteers working alongside theatre professionals in all areas of the production, including 500 amateur actors organised into two casts who shared the 30-performance run. The combined role of Jesus and God the Father was played by Ferdinand Kingsley, and Lucifer/Satan by Graeme Hawley. Reviews for the production were generally positive, with praise for the spectacle and stage design as well as the efforts of the volunteers.\n\nIn 2016 the plays were performed in York Minster from 26 May, the feast of Corpus Christi, until 30 June. The director, Phillip Breen, had previously directed for the Royal Shakespeare Company. Writer Mike Poulton and composer Richard Shepard repeated their millennium production roles. The cast had about 150 amateur actors and the sole professional, Philip McGinley, played Jesus except for the last four performances, when owing to his sudden illness the role was taken by his understudy, Toby Gordon.\n\nAn experimental production using horse-drawn brewers’ drays and market stalls, was performed around Leeds University, in 1975.\n\nIn 1994 the Leeds-based historian Jane Oakshott worked alongside the Friends of York Mystery Plays, the Centre for Medieval Studies at the University of York and the York Early Music Festival to direct the first processional performance of the plays in modern times in York. The production involved nine amateur drama groups each taking one plays, and touring it to five playing stations in central York using pageant waggons.\n\nA production in similar format in 1998 featured eleven plays, and for the first time the modern York Guilds were involved with some of the plays, either directly or as sponsors.\n\nFollowing the production in York Minster in 2000, the Waggon Plays were the only regular cycle performed in the city until 2012 when the static plays were revived. The Waggon Plays also used the Museum Gardens as a performance station maintaining the link between St Mary's Abbey and the plays established in the 1950s.\n\nFor the 2002 production management transferred to a committee of the Guilds of York: the York Guild of Building, the Company of Merchant Taylors, the Company of Cordwainers, the Gild of Freemen, the Company of Butchers, the Guild of Scriveners and the Company of Merchant Adventurers. Ten plays were produced with the assistance of local drama groups.\n\nIn 2006, twelve waggons performed in the streets, in conjunction with the York Early Music Festival.\n\nThe 2010 production featured twelve waggons, performing at four stations. At the same time the only known surviving manuscript of the plays was displayed in York Art Gallery.\n\nTwo plays (Creation and Noah's Ark) were performed on waggons at two stations in the York 800 celebrations in 2012.\n\nThe performances on waggons were performed by the Guilds in 2014 continuing the established four-yearly cycle. 2018 will see the plays return to the streets of York, with a selection of 11 plays.\n\nModern performances use some degree of modernisation of the text, either by a radical policy of replacing all obsolete word and phrases by modern equivalents, or at least by using modern pronunciations. An exception is the productions of the \"Lords of Misrule\", a dramatic group composed of students and recent graduates of the Department of Medieval Studies at the University of York. Their presentations use authentic Middle English both in the words used and in their pronunciation. They have regularly contributed to one of the waggon play productions.\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728040", "categories": ["Plays set in the 1st century", "Festivals in York", "Medieval drama", "Theatre in York", "Middle English literature", "Cultural depictions of Herod the Great", "English plays", "Folk plays", "Christian plays"], "title": "York Mystery Plays"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728055", "text": "James Whitham\n\nJames 'Jamie' Whitham (born James Michael Whitham, 6 September 1966), is an English former professional motorcycle road racer. He raced in most major British and international championships, winning the British championship twice. The readers of Motorcycle News voted him 'Man of the Year' in both 1991 and 1996.\n\nAfter retiring from racing he works as a television motorcycle race commentator, runs road-race tuition track days, and operates a small private airstrip near Huddersfield.\n\nBorn in Huddersfield, Yorkshire, England, Whitam's first motorcycle as a child was a Raleigh Wisp, a small-wheeled moped, and his favourite early road-going machine was a Yamaha FS1-E, but he admitted to Motorcycle News in 1994 that he was more embarrassed at taking his learner-test with a Suzuki X-5 200 cc sidecar outfit.\n\nHe won the 1986 British 80 cc Championship, the 1988 1300 cc Production British Championship, the 1991 MCN TT Superbike Challenge, with Suzuki; and for Yamaha in 1993 both the British Superbike Championship Supercup and the ACU TT Superbike British Championship. He confirmed to Motor Cycle News in 1994 prior to his World Superbike career that his best biking moment was winning the 750 cc double British championship for Yamaha, and that doing 185 mph at Daytona Speedbowl banking was exhilarating.\n\nHe competed in the 1992 French Grand Prix at Magny Cours. He also competed on the Isle of Man - running in the Manx Grand Prix in 1985, and the TT from 1986 to 1989, with three top six results; and he won British championship races at Superstock, Seniorstock, Supersport 600 and TT Formula One levels.\n\nIn 1994 he raced full-time in the Superbike World Championship for Ducati with team-mate Carl Fogarty, taking a race win at Sentul and finishing 7th overall. He returned to the British series in 1995, leading the standings and taking a podium as a World Superbike Championship wild-card at Brands Hatch, but contracted Hodgkin's Disease mid-season. He recovered in time to be British Superbike Championship runner-up in 1996 on a Yamaha, despite not scoring at the first round - he won ten races, twice the number of champion Niall Mackenzie.\n\nHe raced for the Harris Suzuki team in the World Superbike Championship in 1997 and 1998, finishing 8th in the championship both seasons with a total of 3 podiums, but for 1999 the factory contract changed hands, and the new owners hired Pierfrancesco Chili and Katsuaki Fujiwara. Worse was to follow when he was hired by Kenny Roberts' uncompetitive Modenas 500cc World Championship team: he crashed heavily at Brno, breaking his pelvis.\n\nFollowing his win at Donington during 1999 in a one-off appearance, he competed in the Supersport World Championship from 2000 to 2002. He won his very first race in 2000 before a string of crashes (including while leading at Misano) knocked his confidence and relegated him to 8th overall in 2000. He was 4th overall in 2001, forced to support team-mate Paolo Casoli's bid for the championship. In 2002 he won in the wet at Silverstone, before glaucoma, an eye-condition most likely a consequence of past chemotherapy, caused him to retire at the end of the year. In total he took 4 World Supersport victories and 12 podiums. He held the Supersport lap record at Donington Park until Kenan Sofuoglu beat it in 2007.\n\nWhitham confirmed at his own website in May 2017 that his previous cancer problems had recurred, requiring urgent and ongoing chemotherapy and other treatments. This was further updated in December. Whitham was unable to present television coverage of the Isle of Man TT races in May/June 2018 due to intensive treatments as an in-patient at Jimmy's hospital, in the city of Leeds, West Yorkshire.\n\nWhitham now operates Crosland Moor airfield, and also runs race-tuition track days, previously with business partner Paul Shoesmith under the defunct company \"Speed Freak\".\n\nHe established a second career as a popular TV analyst for Eurosport, Channel 4 and ITV. Whitham provides commentary and analysis for the Isle of Man TT coverage by ITV4 alongside former racer Steve Parrish, which is shown on Velocity Channel in the United States.\n\nWhitham also works as a road tester for the British motorcycle magazine Visordown, and has also worked with the young riders of the Virgin Media Cup. In 2008 he launched his autobiography, 'What A Good Do!'. From January 2013 he hosted and presented The Superbike Show on Loaded TV.\n\nWhitham was awarded an honorary Doctorate qualification by Huddersfield University in July 2009.\n", "id": "7728055", "categories": ["English motorcycle racers", "British motorcycle racers", "Supersport World Championship riders", "British Superbike Championship riders", "Living people", "500cc World Championship riders", "1966 births", "Sportspeople from Huddersfield", "Superbike World Championship riders"], "title": "James Whitham"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728063", "text": "Melt with the Sun\n\n\"Melt With the Sun\" is a dance music song written by Amber (aka Marie-Claire Cremers) and Sweet Rains, performed by Amber and produced by Sweet Rains and released on November 14, 2006. The dance music remixes EP has 10 tracks including remixes by Grammy Winner Hex Hector, Tracy Young, Al B Rich, AM Corona, Sweet Rains, Pathos V2, and Lance Jordan.\n\nThe song had its genesis in 2005 when dance music producer and remixer Sweet Rains asked Amber for her feedback on a song that he was working on. Amber provided her input to Sweet Rains, changing some melody lines and rewriting the lyrics. \n\nThe more that she worked on the song, the more she felt it would make a perfect dance music single to follow up her U.S. Top Ten Dance Music Radio hit \"Just Like That\". She pitched the idea to Sweet Rains and he quickly agreed.\n\n\"Melt With the Sun\" is officially credited to Amber featuring Sweet Rains and has been released by JMCA.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728063", "categories": ["2006 songs", "2006 singles", "Amber (performer) songs"], "title": "Melt with the Sun"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728064", "text": "Greek destroyer Hydra\n\nHydra () was a Greek destroyer of the \"Dardo\" class, which served with the Hellenic Navy during the early stages of the Second World War. It was named after the Saronic Gulf island of Hydra, which played an important role in the Greek War of Independence, and was the fourth ship to bear this name.\n\nShe was constructed in Sestri Ponente, Italy, by Cantieri Odero, and commissioned by the Hellenic Navy in 1933. After the outbreak of the Greco-Italian War, she participated in the first naval raid against Italian shipping in the Strait of Otranto (14–15 November 1940). During the German invasion of Greece, she was attacked by German bomber aircraft on April 22, 1941 and sunk near the island of Lagousa in the Saronic Gulf, together with her commander, Cmdr. Th. Pezopoulos and 41 members of her crew.\n\n", "id": "7728064", "categories": ["Ships sunk by German aircraft", "Destroyers sunk by aircraft", "World War II shipwrecks in the Aegean Sea", "1931 ships", "Maritime incidents in April 1941", "Ships built in Italy", "Kountouriotis-class destroyers", "World War II destroyers of Greece"], "title": "Greek destroyer Hydra"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728070", "text": "Directorate-General for Financial Stability, Financial Services and Capital Markets Union\n\nThe Directorate-General for Financial Stability, Financial Services and Capital Markets Union (DG FISMA) is a Directorate-General of the European Commission. It is one of the thirty three DG's that are created and named to reflect their functions.\n\nThe main role of the Directorate-General FISMA is initiating and implementing EU policy in the area of Banking and Finance, including the Capital Markets Union due to operate from 2019.\n\nAfter the financial crisis that began in 2008, the EU responded with a series of reforms to ensure financial market stability and to enhance the supervision of financial markets.\n\nThe operational role of DG FISMA is to ensure that EU legislation is fully implemented, to monitor the effectiveness of these reforms and to respond to any further financial risks that may become apparent.\n\nThe DG is arranged into five sections:\n\n\nValdis Dombrovskis is the current EU Commissioner for this area; Oliver Guersent is the Director-General and he manages DG FISMA.\n\n\n", "id": "7728070", "categories": ["Directorates-General in the European Commission", "Capital markets of Europe", "Finance  in the European Union"], "title": "Directorate-General for Financial Stability, Financial Services and Capital Markets Union"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728071", "text": "Telecommunications Authority of Trinidad and Tobago\n\nThe Telecommunications Authority of Trinidad and Tobago is the organisation that regulates telecommunications and broadcasting services in Trinidad and Tobago. Its chairman is Khalid Hassanali.\n\nThe Telecommunications Authority of Trinidad and Tobago was formed in July 2004, upon full proclamation of the Trinidad and Tobago Telecommunications Act 2001, as amended by the Trinidad and Tobago Telecommunications (Amendment) Act 2004.\n", "id": "7728071", "categories": ["Telecommunications regulatory authorities", "Communications in Trinidad and Tobago", "Government agencies of Trinidad and Tobago"], "title": "Telecommunications Authority of Trinidad and Tobago"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728073", "text": "Rudy Toombs\n\nRudolph Toombs (1914 – November 28, 1962) was an American songwriter. He wrote \"Teardrops from My Eyes\", Ruth Brown's first number one R&B song, and other hit songs for her, including \"5-10-15 Hours\". He also wrote \"One Mint Julep\" for The Clovers.\n\nToombs was born in Monroe, Louisiana. He began as a vaudeville-style song-and-dance man and later became a productive lyricist and composer of doo-wop songs and rhythm-and-blues standards in the 1950s and 1960s. Some of work was done at Atlantic Records, writing and arranging songs for Ahmet Ertegun. Toombs was murdered by robbers in the hallway of his apartment house in Harlem in 1962.\n\nRuth Brown credited Toombs as a major reason for her success. She describes him as joyful, exuberant man, so full of life that he passed that ebullience on to her. He taught her how to take a moody blues ballad and make it into a bouncy jump blues.\n\nSome of Toombs best known songs are listed below.\n\nHis songs (apart from those recordings listed above) have been sung by the following artists:\n\n", "id": "7728073", "categories": ["1962 deaths", "20th-century American musicians", "1962 murders in the United States", "Songwriters from Louisiana", "1914 births", "Murdered American musicians", "People murdered in New York (state)", "Vaudeville performers", "Blues musicians", "Musicians from Monroe, Louisiana"], "title": "Rudy Toombs"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728077", "text": "Anatoli Bugorski\n\nAnatoli Petrovich Bugorski (), born 25 June 1942, is a Russian scientist who was struck by a particle accelerator beam in 1978.\n\nAs a researcher at the Institute for High Energy Physics in Protvino, Bugorski worked with the largest Soviet particle accelerator, the U-70 synchrotron. On 13 July 1978, Bugorski was checking a malfunctioning piece of equipment when the safety mechanisms failed. Bugorski was leaning over the equipment when he stuck his head in the path of the 76 GeV proton beam. Reportedly, he saw a flash \"brighter than a thousand suns\" but did not feel any pain.\n\nThe left half of Bugorski's face swelled up beyond recognition and, over the next several days, the skin started to peel, revealing the path that the proton beam (moving near the speed of light) had burned through parts of his face, his bone and the brain tissue underneath. As it was believed that he had received far in excess of a fatal dose of radiation, Bugorski was taken to a clinic in Moscow where the doctors could observe his expected demise. However, Bugorski survived and even completed his Ph.D. There was virtually no damage to his intellectual capacity, but the fatigue of mental work increased markedly. Bugorski completely lost hearing in the left ear, replaced by a form of tinnitus. The left half of his face was paralyzed due to the destruction of nerves. He was able to function well, except for the fact that he had occasional complex partial seizures and rare tonic-clonic seizures.\n\nBugorski continued to work in science and held the post of coordinator of physics experiments. Because of the Soviet Union's policy of maintaining secrecy on nuclear power-related issues, Bugorski did not speak about the accident for over a decade. He continued going to the Moscow radiation clinic twice a year for examinations and to meet with other nuclear-accident victims. He was described as \"a poster boy for Soviet and Russian radiation medicine\". In 1996, he applied unsuccessfully for disabled status to receive free epilepsy medication. Bugorski showed interest in making himself available for study to Western researchers but could not afford to leave Protvino.\nBugorski is married to Vera Nikolaevna, and they had a son, Peter.\n\n\n", "id": "7728077", "categories": ["Soviet nuclear physicists", "1942 births", "Russian nuclear physicists", "Radiation health effects", "Living people", "Radiation accidents and incidents"], "title": "Anatoli Bugorski"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728079", "text": "Plum Creek\n\nThere are at least 166 streams in the United States called Plum Creek, including:\n\nOther places in the U.S., called Plum Creek:\n\nMay also refer to:\n\n", "id": "7728079", "categories": [], "title": "Plum Creek"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728081", "text": "Fast Train (disambiguation)\n\n\"Fast Train\" was the first single by Canadian rock band April Wine.\n\nFast Train may also refer to:\n", "id": "7728081", "categories": [], "title": "Fast Train (disambiguation)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728090", "text": "Eugendus\n\nSaint Eugendus (also Augendus; ; 449 – January 1, 510) was the fourth abbot of Condat Abbey, at Saint-Claude, Jura. He was born at Izernore.\n\nHe was instructed in reading and writing by his father, who had become a priest, and at the age of seven was given to Saint Romanus and Saint Lupicinus to be educated at Condat Abbey. Thenceforth he never left the monastery. Eugendus acquired much learning, read the Greek and Latin authors, and was well versed in the Scriptures. He led a life of great austerity, including being said to have never laughed, supposedly in respect to a passage in the Rule of St Benedict not to take pleasure in unrestrained or raucous laughter (despite the fact that St. Benedict was born thirty years after him and would scarcely have been known at the time of Eugendus' death). He also refused ever to be ordained a priest. \n\nAbbot Minausius made him his coadjutor, and after the former's death (about 496) Eugendus became his successor. After the monastery, which Saint Romanus had built of wood, was destroyed by fire, Eugendus erected another of stone, and improved the community life; thus far the brethren had lived in separate cells after the fashion of the Eastern ascetics. He built an abbey church in honour of the holy Apostles Peter, Paul, and Andrew, and enriched it with precious relics; the church was the predecessor of the rebuilt abbey church that is now Saint-Claude Cathedral\n\nThe order, which had been founded on the rules of the Oriental monasteries, now took on more of the active character of the Western brethren; the rule of Tarnate is thought to have served as a model. Condat began to flourish as a place of refuge for all those who suffered from the misfortunes and afflictions of those eventful times, a school of virtue and knowledge amid the surrounding darkness, an oasis in the desert. When Eugendus felt his end approaching he had his breast anointed by a priest, took leave of his brethren, and died quietly after five days, at the age of sixty-one.\n\nA few years after his death, his successor, Saint Viventiolus, erected a shrine over his tomb in the abbey church, to which numerous pilgrims travelled. The village that grew round Condat Abbey came to be called, after the saint, \"Saint-Oyand de Joux\", a name it retained as late as the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, while the abbey's former name of Condat passed into oblivion; the abbey was secularised in 1742.\n\nThe feast of Saint Eugendus was at first transferred to 2 January; in the dioceses of Besançon and Saint-Claude it is now celebrated on 4 January.\n\n\n", "id": "7728090", "categories": ["510 deaths", "6th-century Christian saints", "Gallo-Roman saints"], "title": "Eugendus"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728121", "text": "Directorate-General for Justice and Consumers\n\nThe Directorate-General for Justice and Consumers (DG JUST) is a Directorate-General of the European Commission. The role of the body is to ensure that the whole European Union (EU) is an area of freedom, security and justice. The specific tasks and responsibilities of the DG are laid down by the Treaty of Rome (see Part Two, Articles 17-22; Part Three, Title III, Articles 39-47), the Treaty of Amsterdam which came into force on 1 May 1999 and the conclusions of the European Council meeting in Tampere (Finland) in October 1999.\n\nThe relevant Commissioner is the \"European Commissioner for Justice, Consumers and Gender Equality\" (formerly European Commissioner for Justice, Fundamental Rights and Citizenship).\n\nAs of 2015, the DG Justice and Consumers is divided into 5 directorates, namely :\n\n\nDG Justice and Consumers is responsible for relations with the following EU agencies : the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights (FRA), the European Institute for Gender Equality (EIGE) and the European Union Judicial Cooperation Unit (EUROJUST).\n\nDG JUSTICE was created in 2010 when the DG Justice, Freedom and Security was split into DG JUSTICE and the Directorate-General for Home Affairs.\n\n\n", "id": "7728121", "categories": ["Directorates-General in the European Commission"], "title": "Directorate-General for Justice and Consumers"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728139", "text": "Naive T cell\n\nA naive T cell (T0 cell) is a T cell that has differentiated in bone marrow, and successfully undergone the positive and negative processes of central selection in the thymus. Among these are the naive forms of helper T cells (CD4+) and cytotoxic T cells (CD8+). A naive T cell is considered mature and, unlike activated or memory T cells, has not encountered its cognate antigen within the periphery.\n\nNaive T cells are commonly characterized by the surface expression of L-selectin (CD62L) and C-C Chemokine receptor type 7 (CCR7); the absence of the activation markers CD25, CD44 or CD69; and the absence of memory CD45RO isoform. They also express functional IL-7 receptors, consisting of subunits IL-7 receptor-α, CD127, and common-γ chain, CD132. In the naive state, T cells are thought to require the common-gamma chain cytokines IL-7 and IL-15 for homeostatic survival mechanisms. While naive T cells are regularly regarded as a developmentally synchronized and fairly homogeneous and quiescent cell population, only differing in T cell receptor specificity, there is increasing evidence that naive T cells are actually heterogeneous in phenotype, function, dynamics and differentiation status, resulting in a whole spectrum of naive cells with different properties. For instance, some non-naive T cells express surface markers similar to naive T cells (Tscm, stem cell memory T cells; Tmp, memory T cells with a naive phenotype), some antigen-naive T cells have lost their naive phenotype, and some T cells are incorporated within the naive T cell phenotype but are a different T cell subset (Treg, regulatory T cells; RTE, Recent Thymic emigrant). It is important to appreciate these differences when assessing naive T cells. Majority of human naive T cells are produced very early in life when infant's thymus is large and functional. Decrease in naive T cell production due to involution of the thymus with age is compensated by so called \"peripheral proliferation\" or \"homeostatic proliferation\" of naive T cells which have emigrated from the thymus earlier in life. The homeostatic proliferation causes change to naive T cell gene expression and i.e. is manifested by acquisition of CD25 surface protein expression.\n\nNaive T cells can respond to novel pathogens that the immune system has not yet encountered. Recognition by a naive T cell clone of its cognate antigen results in the initiation of an immune response. In turn, this results in the T cell acquiring an activated phenotype seen by the up-regulation of surface markers CD25, CD44, CD62L, CD69 and may further differentiate into a memory T cell.\n\nHaving adequate numbers of naive T cells is essential for the immune system to continuously respond to unfamiliar pathogens.\n\nWhen a recognized antigen binds to the T cell antigen receptor (TCR) located in the cell membrane of Th0 cells, these cells are activated through the following \"classical\" signal transduction cascade:\n\nAn alternative \"non-classical\" pathway involves activated Zap70 directly phosphorylating the p38 MAPK that in turn induces the expression of the vitamin D receptor (VDR). Furthermore, the expression of PLC-γ1 is dependent on VDR activated by calcitriol. Naive T cells have very low expression of VDR and PLC-γ1. However activated TCR signaling through p38 upregulates VDR expression and calcitriol activated VDR in turn upregulates PLC-γ1 expression. Hence the activation of naive T cells is crucially dependent on adequate calcitriol levels.\n\nIn summary, activation of T cells first requires activation through the non-classical pathway to increase expression of VDR and PLC-γ1 before activation through the classical pathway can proceed. This provides a delayed response mechanism where the innate immune system is allowed time (~48 hrs) to clear an infection before the inflammatory T cell mediated adaptive immune response kicks in.\n\n", "id": "7728139", "categories": ["T cells"], "title": "Naive T cell"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728154", "text": "Greek destroyer Spetsai\n\nSpetsai () was a Greek destroyer of the \"Dardo\" class, which served with the Hellenic Navy during the Second World War. It was named after the Saronic Gulf island of Spetses, which played an important role in the Greek War of Independence, and was the fourth ship to bear this name.\n\nShe was constructed in Sestri Ponente, Italy, by Cantieri Odero, and commissioned by the Hellenic Navy in 1933. After the outbreak of the Greco-Italian War, she participated in the naval operations, among which was the third naval raid against Italian shipping in the Strait of Otranto (4–5 January 1941). During the German invasion of Greece, along with several other ships, she managed to flee to Alexandria. After undergoing repairs and modernization in Calcutta, she returned to escort duties in the Mediterranean Sea, with the British pennant number \"H 38\". She returned to Greece after liberation in October 1944 and was decommissioned in 1946.\n", "id": "7728154", "categories": ["Ships built in Italy", "Kountouriotis-class destroyers", "1932 ships", "World War II destroyers of Greece"], "title": "Greek destroyer Spetsai"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728160", "text": "Iron ore in Africa\n\nIron ore production in Africa is dominated by South Africa, Mauritania and Algeria; Zimbabwe and Morocco produce ore for use within the country. Many countries possess iron ore deposits that are as yet untapped/unmined. Countries and companies currently involved in production are listed here; measurements are in tpy, or tonnes per year.\n\nDeposits and production in Algeria include:\n\nDeposits and production in Angola include:\n\nDeposits and production in Cameroon include:\n\nDeposits and production in Central African Republic include:\n\nDeposits and production in Congo (Brazzaville) include:\n\nDeposits and production in Côte d'Ivoire include:\n\nDeposits and production in Egypt include:\n\nDeposits and production in Gabon include:\n\nDeposits and production in Ghana include:\n\nDeposits and production in Guinea include:\n\nDeposits and production in Liberia include:\n\nDeposits and production in Libya include:\n\nDeposits and production in Mali include:\n\nDeposits and production in Mauritania include:\n\nDeposits and production in Nigeria include:\n\nDeposits and production in Senegal include:\n\nDeposits and production in Sierra Leone include:\n\nDeposits and production include:\n\nDeposits and production include:\n\nDeposits and production in Uganda include:\n\nDeposits and production in Zimbabwe include:\n\n\n", "id": "7728160", "categories": ["Mining in South Africa", "Mining in Mauritania"], "title": "Iron ore in Africa"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728161", "text": "Joe Swift\n\nJoseph Samuel Swift (born 25 May 1965) is an English garden designer, journalist and television presenter.\n\nSwift is a regular presenter and designer on the BBC's \"Gardeners' World\", co-presenter on the Royal Horticultural Society Chelsea Flower Show, \"Gardeners' World Live\", Hampton Court, RHS Tatton Park Flower Show, BBC's \"Small Town Gardens\", and design judge on BBC's \"Gardener of the Year\". He has been a presenter/designer on \"Take 3 Gardeners\" (with Cleve West and Ann-Marie Powell).\n\nHe is a garden designer, and has been involved in BBC2's \"Gardeners' World\" since 1998. He is co-founder and Design Director of Modular Garden - a garden design and build company.\n\nSwift has designed many gardens on TV, including one for \"Comic Relief\", many for \"Gardeners' World\". including the Bournville Garden, The 40-year garden, and Alan Titchmarsh's 'How to be a Gardener' series.\n\nIn 2009, Swift presented coverage of the Hampton Court Palace Flower Show for the BBC. He was also one of the main presenters of the BBC coverage of the 2010 Chelsea Flower Show. In 2013, he presented two episodes of \"Great British Garden Revival\".\n\nSwift has written for such newspapers as \"The Independent\", \"The Evening Standard\", and \"The Sunday Times\", on the subject of landscaping and home gardening.\n\nHis writing also includes \"Gardeners' World Magazine\", \"The Times\", and various magazine and newspaper articles. He has written three books - \"The Plant Room\", \"Joe’s Urban Garden Handbook\", and \"Joe’s Allotment\", published in April 2009.\n\nSwift's father was the actor Clive Swift, and he was the nephew of David Swift. His mother is novelist Margaret Drabble, and his brother is academic Adam Swift. His sister Rebecca Swift (died April 2017) was a poet and founder of The Literary Consultancy.\n\nHe is the design director of Modular Garden.\n\n", "id": "7728161", "categories": ["English gardeners", "Living people", "People from London", "1965 births", "British television presenters"], "title": "Joe Swift"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728164", "text": "List of highways numbered 139\n\nHighway 139 may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728164", "categories": [], "title": "List of highways numbered 139"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728171", "text": "Onyema Ugochukwu\n\nOnyema Ugochukwu (born 9 November 1944), CON is a Nigerian economist, journalist, and politician. Ugochukwu served as the senior Special Adviser on Communication to Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo and the first Executive Chairman of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC).\nOn 25 February 2008, an Abia State elections tribunal declared Ugochukwu the winner of the 2007 gubernatorial election and Governor-elect of Abia State.\nHowever, on 11 February 2009 an appeal court in Port Harcourt overturned the ruling, declaring that Theodore Orji of the PPA had in fact won the election.\n\nOnyema Ugochukwu was born on 9 November 1944 in Umuahia, Abia State, Nigeria. He graduated from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, with a BSc in Economics. He is married with four children.\n\nThe political turmoil which followed the first military coup in 1966 escalated into a civil war when the south-east region of Nigeria seceded as the Republic of Biafra a year later. Ugochukwu enlisted in the Biafran Army and rose to the rank of captain before the war ended in 1970.\n\nUpon graduation from college, Ugochukwu was hired as an Economic Research Assistant by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). He remained with CBN for two years before he abandoned a promising career in economics to pursue his true passion, journalism.\n\nUgochukwu joined the \"Business Times\" group as an Economic Analyst and a pioneer staff of what would later become the most influential financial newspaper in Nigeria. Ugochukwu rose in the ranks to become the Editor of the \"Business Times\" newspaper (1977 to 1982). In 1983, Ugochukwu became Editor in Chief of the London-based \"West Africa\" magazine, where he wrote extensively on development issues, to provide a better understanding of the African debt crisis.\nHe eventually returned to Nigeria to become the Editor in Chief of the \"Daily Times of Nigeria\" and he was subsequently appointed to its board as the Executive Director of Manpower and Development. He retired from newspaper journalism in 1994 as the Executive Director of Publications. Ugochukwu remained active as a media consultant for the \"Dow Jones Financial News Service\". Throughout his distinguished career as a journalist, Ugochukwu has met and interviewed numerous Heads of States – including then British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher,\nSouth African President Nelson Mandela, Jamaican Prime Minister P. J. Patterson, French President Jacques Chirac, Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, Cuban President, Fidel Castro, Nigerian presidents Ibrahim Babangida, Muhammadu Buhari, Sani Abacha, and Abdusalami Abubakar – and presented papers on African economic and political development at various forums including Oxford University, England, and Uppsala University.\n\nWith Nigeria's return to democracy in 1998, Ugochukwu became the Director of Publicity at the \"Obasanjo for President\" Campaign Organisation, and contributed immensely to the election of Olusegun Obasanjo as the President of Nigeria. Ugochukwu was appointed as the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Orientation and Public Affairs. He spearheaded a \"National Rebirth\" campaign aimed at instilling patriotic virtues into a national psyche ravaged by years of political instability and corruption. It was on this platform that Ugochukwu launched \"The Nigerian Declaration of Human Responsibilities\", which declares in part: \"This Character on Human Responsibilities… Seeks to bring freedom and responsibility into a better balance, to highlight and increase awareness of the obligation which we owe each other and to our nation.\"\n\nTo soothe the political unrest in the oil-rich Niger Delta region of southern Nigeria, President Obasanjo signed the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) act of 2000 into law. Ugochukwu was appointed as the pioneer chairman of the newly created commission, charged with developing the nine oil producing states of the country, with excess oil revenues.\n\nUgochukwu helped to articulate the president's vision of sustainable development in the Niger Delta region, and developed a policy which encouraged partnership amongst its stakeholders—Niger-delta communities and their tribal chiefs, youth militia, oil companies and their executives, the Nigerian government, and Non-Government Organizations, and international organisations like the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the World Bank. During Ugochukwu's tenure, the NDDC focused mainly on economic revival and prosperity, environmental rehabilitation, and the development of social and physical infrastructure.\n\nAt the end of his four-year tenure at NDDC, Ugochukwu returned to Abuja and continued to serve as the President's \"Special Adviser on Communications\". He took an interest in state politics, and resigned from office to join the Abia State gubernatorial race. In 2006, the Campaign for Abia Rebirth (CARE) was launched, with a promise to rebuild the state. On 13 December 2006, Ugochukwu emerged as the People's Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for the 2007 Abia State gubernatorial elections. The hotly contested race was marred by allegations of electoral malpractice, and violence, all of which culminated in the election of Ugochukwu's rival, Theodore Orji of the Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA).\n\nThere was an attempt on Ugochukwu's life during the Abia State Gubernatorial elections on 14 April 2007. The assailants fired shots at his motorcade, fatally wounding one of his State Security Service (SSS) bodyguards, who suffered gunshot wounds through his head and hands. Ugochukwu, the PDP candidate and frontrunner in the election, blamed the attack on his political opponents in the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA).\n\nUgochukwu sought redress at the Abia State Election Petition Tribunal. Governor Theodore Orji's election was annulled on 25 February 2008, on the grounds that he was ineligible to contest for the office. Orji and his deputy had failed to resign their respective positions in the Abia State government, 30 days prior to the election as stipulated in the 1999 Constitution. The Tribunal also cited Governor Orji's failure to prove beyond a reasonable doubt, his affiliation with a secret cult.\n\nUgochukwu was thus declared the lawful winner of the April 2007 gubernatorial election, and Governor-elect of Abia State – pending the outcome at the Port Harcourt Appeals Court.\nHowever, on 11 February 2009 an appeal court in Port Harcourt overturned the ruling, declaring that Theodore Orji of the PPA had in fact won the election.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728171", "categories": ["Military personnel of the Nigerian Civil War", "Commanders of the Order of the Niger", "Igbo economists", "Nigerian Methodists", "Nigerian newspaper journalists", "People from Abia State", "1944 births", "Living people", "University of Nigeria, Nsukka alumni", "Igbo politicians", "Nigerian editors", "People's Democratic Party (Nigeria) politicians", "Nigerian economists"], "title": "Onyema Ugochukwu"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728185", "text": "Pride Shockwave 2006\n\nPride Shockwave 2006 was a mixed martial arts event held by Pride Fighting Championships on December 31, 2006.\n\nThe main event was scheduled to be heavyweight Champion Fedor Emelianenko defending his heavyweight championship against the winner of the Absolute Grand Prix, but Mirko Filipović was recovering from foot surgery he underwent on October 26 and could not be fighting at Shockwave.\n\nJosh Barnett, the Absolute Grand Prix runner up, was also a contender to face Emelianenko, as mentioned by the heavyweight champion in a Pride 32 post-fight press conference, but was \"not in the best condition\" to compete and instead fought Antônio Rodrigo Nogueira. Ultimately, Fedor defended his title against Mark Hunt.\n\nThe event was the first outside of tournaments, title bouts and fights under the NSAC jurisdiction to feature concrete weight classes. All Lightweight (-73 kg) and Welterweight (-83 kg) bouts were fought under Bushido rules with one ten-minute and on five-minute round. The sole exception however is the fight between Minowa and Tamura, as both had requested to fight under full Pride rules as well as fight in the opening fight of the night.\n\n", "id": "7728185", "categories": ["Pride Fighting Championships events", "2006 in mixed martial arts", "Mixed martial arts in Japan"], "title": "Pride Shockwave 2006"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728193", "text": "Kenichi Matsuyama\n\n, real name , is a Japanese actor.\n\nHe is known for his affinity for strange character roles, and he is best known internationally for playing L in the 2006 films \"Death Note\", \"\" and \"\" in 2008, as well as voicing Gelus in the \"Death Note\" animated adaptation. He was cast to play lead character Toru Watanabe in the film adaptation of Haruki Murakami's novel \"Norwegian Wood\", which was released in December 2010.\n\nOn April 1, 2011, he married Koyuki Katō, who co-starred with him in \"Kamui Gaiden\". The couple's first child was born in January 2012, and their second child was born in January 2013 in South Korea. In July 2015, the couple had their third child.\n\n", "id": "7728193", "categories": ["Living people", "1985 births", "Japanese male actors", "Actors from Aomori Prefecture"], "title": "Kenichi Matsuyama"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728199", "text": "Directorate-General for Regional and Urban Policy\n\nThe Directorate-General for Regional and Urban Policy (DG REGIO) is a Directorate-General of the European Commission.\n\nThe DG Regional and Urban Policy is responsible for European Union measures to assist the economic and social development of the less-favored regions of the European Union under Articles 158 and 160 of the Treaty of Rome.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728199", "categories": ["Directorates-General in the European Commission"], "title": "Directorate-General for Regional and Urban Policy"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728202", "text": "Ad hoc testing\n\nAd hoc testing is a commonly used term for software testing performed without planning and documentation, but can be applied to early scientific experimental studies.\n\nThe tests are intended to be run only once, unless a defect is discovered. Ad hoc testing is the least formal test method. As such, it has been criticized because it is not structured and hence defects found using this method may be harder to reproduce (since there are no written test cases). However, the strength of ad hoc testing is that important defects can be found quickly.\n\nIt is performed by improvisation: the tester seeks to find bugs by any means that seem appropriate. Ad hoc testing can be seen as a light version of error guessing, which itself is a light version of exploratory testing.\n\n", "id": "7728202", "categories": [], "title": "Ad hoc testing"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728216", "text": "Danutė\n\nDanutė is quite popular female given name in Lithuania. Women named \"Danutė\" include:\n\n\n", "id": "7728216", "categories": [], "title": "Danutė"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728240", "text": "Saint Claudius\n\nSaint Claudius may refer to:\n", "id": "7728240", "categories": [], "title": "Saint Claudius"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728252", "text": "Tock\n\nTock (also known as Tuck in some English parts of Quebec) is a board game, similar to Ludo, Aggravation or Sorry!, in which players race their four tokens (or marbles) around the game board from start to finish—the objective being to be the first to take all of one's tokens \"home\". Like Sorry!, it is played with playing cards rather than dice.\n\nTock is a Cross and Circle game in the style of Pachisi, an Indian game played since the first millennium BC. Tock's exact origins are unclear, but traditionally it is believed that it originated with the early settlers of Quebec, Canada.\n\nFrom Quebec, the game \"Jeu du Toc (Tock)\" moved to France where it is also known as \"Jeu des petits chevaux canadiens\". Tock is also similar to the French game \"Jeu des petits chevaux\", where moves are determined by throwing dice instead of playing cards.\n\nSome versions of the game use pawns or \"men\" as tokens; other versions use marbles instead, which advance on a wooden board with circular indentations in it to hold the marbles. While the game is designed on the basis of a French deck of cards with jokers removed; there are some versions that do use the jokers (54-Cards Game), or that come with cards specially made for the game that depict the actions they allow.\n\nAt the beginning of each round players are dealt a number of cards which they play in turns to move their tokens around the board. If at any time a token lands exactly on the field occupied by another token then the moved token replaces the resting one (which is placed back into the corresponding player's starting area). If a player on his turn has no cards he can play with his tokens (or which he can't play against the other players, like a 5, 10 or Queen in some variations) then he must discard his entire remaining hand and wait for the next hand to be dealt.\n\nA starter is a card that allows a player to move a new token to the starting field. Aces and Kings (and Jokers in some variations) are starters.\n\nA token at the starting field is immune to capture or swaping by an opponent, and additionally it creates a blockade. No players can pass a token that is on its starting field, either forward or backwards (with a 4)with the exception of a Joker\n\nIn the simplest form of the game, the cards only provide a single specific number of fields to move forward. However, Tock has many (even more popular) variations where some cards have special functions, that make the game more challenging and interesting.\n\nAny combination of card functions can be used in play. Just ensure every player is aware of all the options to be used in play prior to the game.\n\n\n\nAside from a \"Free for all\" play style the game also supports a variety of team based modes. Common to all team based variations is that once a team member has managed to bring all of his tokens home he helps move his partners' tokens. If the first player to get all marbles home plays a seven, the remainder can be used to move the partners marbles. Also after every hand is dealt the team members exchange one card with each other.\n\n\n", "id": "7728252", "categories": ["Cross and circle games"], "title": "Tock"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728259", "text": "Danuta\n\nDanuta is a Polish given name. \n\nWomen named Danuta include:\n\nOther meanings include:\n\n", "id": "7728259", "categories": [], "title": "Danuta"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728279", "text": "1738 English cricket season\n\nThe 1738 English cricket season was the 42nd cricket season since the earliest recorded eleven-aside match was played. Details have survived of seven matches.\n\nRecords have survived of seven matches:\n\nAn advertisement in the \"Sherborne Mercury\" on 9 May, is the earliest reference to cricket in Dorset. Twelve Dorchester men at Ridgway Races challenged twelve men from elsewhere to play them at cricket for the prize of twelve pairs of gloves valued at a shilling a pair.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728279", "categories": ["1738 in English cricket"], "title": "1738 English cricket season"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728284", "text": "Perambur Carriage Works railway station\n\nPerambur Carriage Works is a suburban railway station less than a kilometre from the Perambur railway station in Chennai, India. The station has an elevation of 7.16 m above sea level. Mainly POH and IOH of all type of passenger coaches are undertaken here. The railway department has many facilities around this station, including a school and an indoor sporting facility.\n\nPerambur region, which has been a part of the Chennai city since the mid-18th century, is home to the Southern Railway's workshop, which was established in 1856 to serve the erstwhile Madras and Southern Mahratta Railway Company. A combined locomotive, carriage and wagon POH, and coach-building workshop, it was bifurcated in 1932 to deal with carriage and wagon POH activity only, shifting the locomotive overhaul activity to the new Loco workshop built adjacent to the original workshop. Perambur Carriage Works station was built along with the Perambur Loco Works station to serve these two workshops. The workshops, along with other assets, came under the Southern Railway with its formation in 1951, integrating the erstwhile South Indian Railway company, Madras and the Southern Mahratta Railway Company, and Mysore State Railway.\n\nThe lines at the station were electrified on 29 November 1979, with the electrification of the Chennai Central–Tiruvallur section.\n\nPerambur Carriage Works is one of the railway stations in the Chennai Suburban Railway network that are being developed as Adarsh stations.\n", "id": "7728284", "categories": ["Stations of Chennai Suburban Railway", "Railway stations in Chennai"], "title": "Perambur Carriage Works railway station"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728289", "text": "Greek destroyer Kountouriotis (1931)\n\nKountouriotis () was a Greek destroyer of the \"Dardo\" class, which served with the Hellenic Navy during the Second World War. It was named after the admiral and politician Pavlos Kountouriotis, who was the commander of the Greek Fleet during the Balkan Wars, as well as serving twice as President of the Second Hellenic Republic. She was the second ship to bear this name.\n\nShe was constructed in Sestri Ponente, Italy, by Cantieri Odero, and commissioned by the Hellenic Navy in 1933. After the outbreak of the Greco-Italian War, she participated in the naval operations, especially in the second and third naval raids against Italian shipping in the Strait of Otranto (December 15–16, 1940, and 4–5 January 1941). During the German invasion of Greece, along with several other ships, she managed to flee to Alexandria. Subsequently, she underwent repairs and modernization in Bombay from June 1941 to April 1942. She returned to escort duties in the Mediterranean Sea, with the British pennant number \"H07\", until November 15, 1943, when she was placed in active reserve. She was decommissioned in 1946.\n", "id": "7728289", "categories": ["Ships built in Italy", "Kountouriotis-class destroyers", "1931 ships", "World War II destroyers of Greece"], "title": "Greek destroyer Kountouriotis (1931)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728295", "text": "Directorate-General for Taxation and Customs Union (European Commission)\n\nThe Directorate-General for Taxation and Customs Union is a Directorate-General of the European Commission. The DG Taxation and Customs manages, defends and develops the customs union as a vital part of protecting the external borders of the European Union. It also co-ordinates taxation policy across the European Union.\n\nThe Directorate-General is organised into five directorates:\n\n\n", "id": "7728295", "categories": ["International taxation", "Directorates-General in the European Commission", "Tax organizations"], "title": "Directorate-General for Taxation and Customs Union (European Commission)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728304", "text": "William Montgomery Brown\n\nWilliam Montgomery Brown (1855–1937), sometimes called \"Bad Bishop\" Brown, was an Episcopal clergyman and author. Brown, of Galion, Ohio, was consecrated a bishop of the Episcopal Church, but is best remembered as the first Episcopal bishop to be tried for heresy since the Reformation, and the first of any creed in America to be deposed for heretical teachings. He later became a bishop in the Old Catholic Church.\n\nWilliam Montgomery Brown was born on September 4, 1855, on a farm west of Orrville, Ohio, the son of a Joseph Morrison and Lucina Elzina Cary Brown. His father was a tenant farmer who moved the family to Michigan in 1858, and later enlisted in the Union Army during the Civil War. Joseph Brown served in Tennessee before becoming ill, and was sent home to recuperate. He died on August 1, 1862. His mother moved the family back to Ohio, and \"Willy\" was \"hired out\" to a farmer who did not treat the boy well and neglected to provide for his education.\n\nWhen Willy was 15, the county placed him with a farmer named Jacob Gardner, a member of the Methodist Episcopal Church. Gardner's piety greatly influenced young Brown. During this time he became seriously ill with typhoid fever. Years later Brown recalled making a bargain with God to devote his life to the ministry if his life would be spared. His health improved and he saved enough from the money his foster parents paid him to leave Ohio just after his 21st birthday. In 1876, Brown traveled to Omaha, Nebraska and got a job driving a carriage for a judge, who arranged for Brown to enter public school. After graduating, Brown returned to Ohio and worked in a tannery.\n\nPhilanthropist Mary Scranton Bradford agreed to underwrite his education at the Episcopal Seminary, Bexley Hall, at Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio. Mrs. Bradford sent him to Seabury Divinity School in Minnesota from 1879 to 1880 so he could prepare for the seminary course. He finished his studies in 1883, but because he did not take all of his courses at Kenyon, he never received a Bachelor of Divinity degree from Bexley. Brown was ordained and in 1883, became vicar of Grace Church in Galion, Ohio. In 1891, he became the archbishop for missionary work in the Diocese of Ohio and wrote his popular \"The Church for Americans\", which explained the beliefs of the Episcopal Church. This placed him in the national spotlight. He was consecrated assistant bishop of Arkansas in 1898 and succeeded to the bishopric after the death of Henry Niles Pierce. Also in 1898, he received an honorary Doctor of Divinity from Kenyon College.\n\nHis 1907 book \"The Crucial Race Question\", which supported the segregation of the races, greatly angered the Northerners who usually contributed substantial sums to support his poor diocese. Brown created the Helen Dunlap School for Mountain Girls and a seminary to train a local ministry in Arkansas. From 1909 to 1910, he engaged in a sharp conflict with Trinity Cathedral in Little Rock (Pulaski County) over the issue of control over the cathedral and the refusal of the dean to read and compliment the bishop’s new book, \"The Level Plan of Church Union\". This dispute further alienated many in Arkansas. \"The Level Plan\" rejected many practices of the Episcopal Church and angered many supporters, who promptly insisted that he leave. In 1911, he returned to Galion, Ohio, and formally resigned as bishop of Arkansas in 1912, although he remained a bishop without a diocese. He was succeeded as Bishop of Arkansas by James Rideout Winchester.\n\nBrown began reading Charles Darwin, Karl Marx, and other authors promoting a materialistic view of the world. Two years later, Brown announced his \"conversion to science\" in July 1913. He wrote to Episcopal bishops informing them of his new position. He rejected the historical Jesus. \"I no longer believed in a personal God, nor in a six-day creation, nor in a literal heaven and hell,\" Brown wrote. Creeds, he decided, were merely symbolical.\n\nBrown's evolution from Bishop of Arkansas (1899–1912), to finding an interest in Marxism, socialism, and Communism during the 1910s, to author of \"Communism and Christianism\" (1920), dramatically increased and challenged his influence in the church. It led to his heresy trial by the House of Bishops in 1924–25. There he tried to prove to his fellow bishops that they did not believe in a strict interpretation of the Bible any more than he then did. Nonetheless, Brown was deposed and excommunicated. However, while awaiting the final verdict on his deposition as bishop in October 1925, he was offered a place in both the Russian Orthodox Church, which was heavily influenced by Soviet authorities at the time, and the Old Catholic Church. He opted for the latter and was consecrated an Old Catholic bishop in a ceremony conducted in his own study in Galion. Because Old Catholic orders were accepted as valid by the Episcopal Church in the United States, Bishop Brown's position as a bishop in apostolic succession could not be challenged by his former church. Many Old Catholic churches count Bishop Brown in the line of succession of their bishops.\n\nBrown felt that his real ministry began at age 71 when he started lecturing to the working class and writing a wider variety of books. When he encountered difficulty in finding a publisher, he published himself under the Bradford Brown Educational Company, Inc. He continued to write until his death in 1937 at the age of 82. Bishop Brown is buried beside his wife in Galion's Fairview Cemetery. His will left bequests to the Galion hospital and to Kenyon College.\n\n\nIn December 1882, William Brown married Ella Scranton Bradford, adopted niece of Mary Scranton Bradford. Mrs. Bradford had Brownella Cottage built, across the street from Grace Church, as a wedding present for the couple. A brick structure from 1866 that had originally been used as St. Joseph Roman Catholic Church was preserved on the site to serve as William’s study. Brownella Cottage was completed in 1887. The house reflected both the Bradford wealth and the high style of 1880s architecture in the United States. Ella Brown died in 1935; the bishop on October 31, 1937.\n\nBrownella Cottage is owned by the Galion Historical Society, which operates it as part monument to Brown, part museum for the town of Galion. The ghosts of both Ella and William Brown are purported to haunt Brownella Cottage. It has been said that every Halloween night one can see the ghost of the bishop walking the glass causeway between the house and the study. One individual taking the guided tour reported smelling pipe smoke even though there were no pipe smokers present. The building has had many visitors, particularly around Halloween, who are drawn to the story of ghosts allegedly inhabiting the building.\n\nThe My Ghost Story television program ran an episode on Brownella Cottage offering accounts of several people claiming encounters with what they thought may have been a ghost.\n\n\n", "id": "7728304", "categories": ["1855 births", "19th-century American writers", "Christian communists", "Bishops of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America", "Crawford County, Ohio", "American Old Catholic bishops", "American Christian socialists", "American male writers", "People from Galion, Ohio", "American Marxists", "1937 deaths", "American Episcopalians"], "title": "William Montgomery Brown"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728318", "text": "Frank Wright (jazz musician)\n\nFrank Wright (9 July 1935 – 17 May 1990) was an American free jazz musician from Grenada, Mississippi, Memphis, Tennessee and Cleveland, Ohio, known for his frantic style of tenor saxophone.\n\nWright was born in Grenada, Mississippi, but he grew up in Memphis, Tennessee. He began to play tenor sax in his late teens, when his family moved to Cleveland, Ohio as part of the Great Migration out of the South. More than 1.5 million black Americans left the South before World War II to seek opportunities in the industrial cities of the North and Midwest. Another 5.5 million left during and after the war, up to 1970.\n\nIn Cleveland, Wright met Bobby Few and Albert Ayler, both of whom became friends and musical influences. Originally a bass player, Wright played in numerous local R&B bands before taking up the saxophone. He also toured with B. B. King and Bobby \"Blue\" Bland.\n<nowiki> Ayler's musical influence persuaded Wright to switch to saxophone; his style is often associated with Ayler's. In addition to tenor saxophone, he also played the soprano saxophone and bass clarinet. A pioneer of experimental music, Wright is a widely acclaimed artist among his colleagues in the free jazz movement.</nowiki>\n\n\nwith Cecil Taylor\nwith Albert Ayler\nwith Sunny Murray\nwith Noah Howard\nwith Hans Dulfer\nwith Muhammad Ali\nwith Alan Silva and Bobby Few\nwith Georges Arvanitas\nwith Marvin Peterson\nwith Saheb Sarbib\nwith Peter Brötzmann\nwith Raphe Malik\nwith A. R. Penck\n\n", "id": "7728318", "categories": ["American male saxophonists", "Avant-garde jazz musicians", "20th-century American musicians", "20th-century saxophonists", "American jazz saxophonists", "BYG Actuel artists", "1990 deaths", "Jazz musicians from Mississippi", "ESP-Disk artists", "1935 births", "People from Grenada, Mississippi", "20th-century male musicians"], "title": "Frank Wright (jazz musician)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728338", "text": "The Great Snow of 1717\n\nThe Great Snow of 1717 was a series of snowstorms between February 27 and March 7, 1717 (Gregorian calendar) that blanketed the colony of Virginia and the New England colonies with five or more feet (1.5 or more meters) of snow, and much higher drifts. Snowfall may have occurred elsewhere, but settler population was sparse outside of New England at that time. The Great Snow is considered one of the benchmark storms in New England, often compared to the Great Blizzard of 1888 in severity.\n\nThe winter, even prior to the Great Snow, had been the worst in memory. The temperatures had not been unusually cold, but in December 1716, there had already been snow to the depth of . By the end of January, there were drifts high in a few places, overwhelming the people living in New England at the time.\n\nThere had been a series of volcanic eruptions circa 1716. Ash circulating the globe in the upper atmosphere from the eruptions of Mount Kirishima in Japan, Kelud in Indonesia and Taal Volcano in the Philippines likely contributed to the exceptional New England snowfall.\n\nThe great snow, depending on the source, began on February 27 or March 1. On February 27 a typical New England nor'easter passed through, with snow falling on some areas and other places receiving a mix of snow, sleet, and rain. The first major snowstorm occurred on March 1, with another on the 4th, and a third, the worst among the three, on the 7th. At some points, the snow would lighten and stop, but the sky would remain cloudy, showing no signs of clearing.\n\nSome of the oldest Native Americans had said that even their ancestors never spoke of a storm of this magnitude. Boston received around of snow, while some places north of the city reached up to . In Hampton, Massachusetts, the snow was so deep that people could only leave their houses from the second floor on the lee side of the house, implying actual snow depths of as much as or more. Many single-story homes were buried completely, without even the chimney showing. On the larger residences, drifts reached the third-story window on the windward side. Large expanses of snow were deep, with some significant drifts deep.\n\nThe post roads were impassable until at least March 15, with the mailmen describing snow drifts from Boston to Portsmouth more than a week after the storm. Travel was also impossible for a time from New York City to Boston.\n\nThe geographic scope of the storm is unknown, due to the scarce population and poor record-keeping of the day. Most information is known only from private diaries. The snow was known to be several feet deep around Philadelphia, New York City, New London, Connecticut, Boston and Portsmouth, New Hampshire.\n\nMany livestock lost their lives, either starving or freezing to death under tremendous drifts of snow. As many as 90-95% of the deer in the area died, either from starvation or predators, leading to many towns appointing \"deer-reeves\" to ensure their preservation. Many orchards were damaged, since the snow covered even the tops of many trees, and animals would graze among the upper branches where they usually could not.\n\n\n \n", "id": "7728338", "categories": ["18th-century meteorology", "1717 in Connecticut", "1717 in Massachusetts", "1717 in New Hampshire", "1717 in the Thirteen Colonies", "1717 natural disasters", "Blizzards in the United States"], "title": "The Great Snow of 1717"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728349", "text": "North Wildwood School District\n\nThe North Wildwood School District is a community public school district that serves students in kindergarten through eighth grade from North Wildwood, in Cape May County, New Jersey, United States.\n\nAs of the 2014-15 school year, the district and its one school had an enrollment of 350 students and 39.0 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 9.0:1.\n\nThe district is classified by the New Jersey Department of Education as being in District Factor Group \"A\", the lowest of eight groupings. District Factor Groups organize districts statewide to allow comparison by common socioeconomic characteristics of the local districts. From lowest socioeconomic status to highest, the categories are A, B, CD, DE, FG, GH, I and J.\n\nFor ninth through twelfth grades, public school students from North Wildwood attend Wildwood High School in Wildwood as part of a sending/receiving relationship with the Wildwood Public School District, together with students from West Wildwood and Wildwood Crest. As of the 2014-15 school year, the high school had an enrollment of 252 students and 38.6 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 6.5:1.\n\n\nCore members of the district's administration are:\n\n", "id": "7728349", "categories": ["North Wildwood, New Jersey", "New Jersey District Factor Group A"], "title": "North Wildwood School District"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728365", "text": "Tammy Jansen\n\nTammy Ann Jansen (born c. 1975) is a beauty queen from the Seattle suburbs who represented the state of Washington in the Miss USA Pageant.\n\nJansen won the Miss Washington USA Pageant in June 1998, and later represented Washington in the Miss USA 1999 Pageant in Branson, Missouri. She did not make the semifinals at the nationally televised pageant, which was won by Kimberly Pressler of New York.\n\nAfter her reign, Jansen competed on the TV show \"Destination Stardom...from Hawaii.\" \n\nJansen is a native of Wisconsin, where she grew up in a farming community, but later moved to Washington. She has worked as an esthetician.\n\nMost of Jansen's life has included charity work. Areas of charity include Children's Hospital, Aids Research, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research, American Heart Walk, Seasons of Life (Breast Cancer Research) and more.\n\n", "id": "7728365", "categories": ["1970s births", "Living people", "People from Seattle", "Miss USA 1999 delegates"], "title": "Tammy Jansen"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728366", "text": "Gold River\n\nGold River may refer to:\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728366", "categories": [], "title": "Gold River"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728371", "text": "South Troy, Minnesota\n\nSouth Troy is an unincorporated community in Zumbro Township, Wabasha County, Minnesota, United States. It is located on U.S. Highway 63 about 13 miles north of Rochester. Nearby places include Hammond, Zumbro Falls, Mazeppa, Potsdam, and Oronoco. Wabasha County Roads 7 and 11 are nearby.\n\nSouth Troy had a post office from 1858 to 1903. Nearby Zumbro Falls was originally named \"Troy\" in the 1850s. The area south of Zumbro Falls to the Wabasha–Olmsted County line along U.S. 63 was named \"South Troy\". The name of Troy was changed to Zumbro Falls after 1860 because there was already a community named Troy in southeast Minnesota at Winona County.\n\nSouth Troy was known for being a home for Laura Ingalls Wilder, the writer of the \"Little House on the Prairie\" series of books, and her family for a short time in the summer of 1876. This is where Charles and Caroline Ingalls fourth child, and their only son, Charles Frederic 'Freddy' Ingalls (November 1, 1875 in Walnut Grove, Minnesota – August 27, 1876 in South Troy), died at the age of 10 months.\n\n", "id": "7728371", "categories": ["1858 establishments in Minnesota Territory", "Unincorporated communities in Wabasha County, Minnesota", "Rochester, Minnesota metropolitan area", "Unincorporated communities in Minnesota"], "title": "South Troy, Minnesota"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728377", "text": "List of Christian mystics\n\nChristian mysticism refers to the development of mystical practices and theory within Christianity. It has often been connected to mystical theology, especially in the Roman Catholic and Orthodox Christianity (both the Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox traditions).\n\nThe attributes and means by which Christian mysticism is studied and practiced are varied. They range from ecstatic visions of the soul's mystical union with God to simple prayerful contemplation of Holy Scripture (i.e., Lectio Divina).\n\nThe experiences of mystics are often framed within theological approaches to God, such as Quietism, Pietism, etc.; therefore, in order to aid in the understanding of Christian mysticism, this list includes some philosophers, theologians, anonymous theological books, religious groups and movements whose ideas and practices have had an influence on Christian mystics and the Christian mystical experience.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728377", "categories": ["Christian mystics"], "title": "List of Christian mystics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728392", "text": "Entropy (order and disorder)\n\nIn thermodynamics, entropy is commonly associated with the amount of order, disorder, or chaos in a thermodynamic system. This stems from Rudolf Clausius' 1862 assertion that any thermodynamic process always \"admits to being reduced [reduction] to the alteration in some way or another of the \"arrangement\" of the constituent parts of the working body\" and that internal work associated with these alterations is quantified energetically by a measure of \"entropy\" change, according to the following differential expression:\n\nIn the years to follow, Ludwig Boltzmann translated these \"alterations\" into that of a probabilistic view of order and disorder in gas-phase molecular systems.\n\nIn recent years, in chemistry textbooks there has been a shift away from using the terms \"order\" and \"disorder\" to that of the concept of energy dispersion to describe entropy, among other theories. In the 2002 encyclopedia Encarta, for example, \"entropy\" is defined as a thermodynamic property which serves as a measure of how close a system is to equilibrium, as well as a measure of the disorder in the system.\nIn the context of entropy, \"\"perfect internal disorder\"\" is synonymous with \"equilibrium\", but since that definition is so far different from the usual definition implied in normal speech, the use of the term in science has caused a great deal of confusion and misunderstanding.\n\nLocally, the entropy can be lowered by external action. This applies to machines, such as a refrigerator, where the entropy in the cold chamber is being reduced, and to living organisms. This local decrease in entropy is, however, only possible at the expense of an entropy increase in the surroundings.\n\nThis \"molecular ordering\" entropy perspective traces its origins to molecular movement interpretations developed by Rudolf Clausius in the 1850s, particularly with his 1862 visual conception of molecular disgregation. Similarly, in 1859, after reading a paper on the diffusion of molecules by Clausius, Scottish physicist James Clerk Maxwell formulated the Maxwell distribution of molecular velocities, which gave the proportion of molecules having a certain velocity in a specific range. This was the first-ever statistical law in physics.\n\nIn 1864, Ludwig Boltzmann, a young student in Vienna, came across Maxwell’s paper and was so inspired by it that he spent much of his long and distinguished life developing the subject further. Later, Boltzmann, in efforts to develop a kinetic theory for the behavior of a gas, applied the laws of probability to Maxwell's and Clausius' molecular interpretation of entropy so to begin to interpret entropy in terms of order and disorder. Similarly, in 1882 Hermann von Helmholtz used the word \"Unordnung\" (disorder) to describe entropy.\n\nTo highlight the fact that order and disorder are commonly understood to be measured in terms of entropy, below are current science encyclopedia and science dictionary definitions of entropy:\n\n\nEntropy and disorder also have associations with equilibrium. Technically, \"entropy\", from this perspective, is defined as a thermodynamic property which serves as a measure of how close a system is to equilibrium — that is, to perfect internal disorder. Likewise, the value of the entropy of a distribution of atoms and molecules in a thermodynamic system is a measure of the disorder in the arrangements of its particles. In a stretched out piece of rubber, for example, the arrangement of the molecules of its structure has an “ordered” distribution and has zero entropy, while the “disordered” kinky distribution of the atoms and molecules in the rubber in the non-stretched state has positive entropy. Similarly, in a gas, the order is perfect and the measure of entropy of the system has its lowest value when all the molecules are in one place, whereas when more points are occupied the gas is all the more disorderly and the measure of the entropy of the system has its largest value.\n\nIn systems ecology, as another example, the entropy of a collection of items comprising a system is defined as a measure of their disorder or equivalently the relative likelihood of the instantaneous configuration of the items. Moreover, according to theoretical ecologist and chemical engineer Robert Ulanowicz, “that entropy might provide a quantification of the heretofore subjective notion of disorder has spawned innumerable scientific and philosophical narratives.” In particular, many biologists have taken to speaking in terms of the entropy of an organism, or about its antonym negentropy, as a measure of the structural order within an organism.\n\nThe mathematical basis with respect to the association entropy has with order and disorder began, essentially, with the famous Boltzmann formula, formula_2, which relates entropy \"S\" to the number of possible states \"W\" in which a system can be found. As an example, consider a box that is divided into two sections. What is the probability that a certain number, or all of the particles, will be found in one section versus the other when the particles are randomly allocated to different places within the box? If you only have one particle, then that system of one particle can subsist in two states, one side of the box versus the other. If you have more than one particle, or define states as being further locational subdivisions of the box, the entropy is larger because the number of states is greater. The relationship between entropy, order, and disorder in the Boltzmann equation is so clear among physicists that according to the views of thermodynamic ecologists Sven Jorgensen and Yuri Svirezhev, “it is obvious that entropy is a measure of order or, most likely, disorder in the system.” In this direction, the second law of thermodynamics, as famously enunciated by Rudolf Clausius in 1865, states that:\n\nThus, if entropy is associated with disorder and if the entropy of the universe is headed towards maximal entropy, then many are often puzzled as to the nature of the \"ordering\" process and operation of evolution in relation to Clausius' most famous version of the second law, which states that the universe is headed towards maximal “disorder”. In the recent 2003 book \"SYNC – the Emerging Science of Spontaneous Order\" by Steven Strogatz, for example, we find “Scientists have often been baffled by the existence of spontaneous order in the universe. The laws of thermodynamics seem to dictate the opposite, that nature should inexorably degenerate toward a state of greater disorder, greater entropy. Yet all around us we see magnificent structures—galaxies, cells, ecosystems, human beings—that have all somehow managed to assemble themselves.” \n\nThe common argument used to explain this is that, locally, entropy can be lowered by external action, e.g. solar heating action, and that this applies to machines, such as a refrigerator, where the entropy in the cold chamber is being reduced, to growing crystals, and to living organisms. This local increase in order is, however, only possible at the expense of an entropy increase in the surroundings; here more disorder must be created. The conditioner of this statement suffices that living systems are open systems in which both heat, mass, and or work may transfer into or out of the system. Unlike temperature, the putative entropy of a living system would drastically change if the organism were thermodynamically isolated. If an organism was in this type of “isolated” situation, its entropy would increase markedly as the once-living components of the organism decayed to an unrecognizable mass.\n\nOwing to these early developments, the typical example of entropy change Δ\"S\" is that associated with phase change. In solids, for example, which are typically ordered on the molecular scale, usually have smaller entropy than liquids, and liquids have smaller entropy than gases and colder gases have smaller entropy than hotter gases. Moreover, according to the third law of thermodynamics, at absolute zero temperature, crystalline structures are approximated to have perfect \"order\" and zero entropy. This correlation occurs because the numbers of different microscopic quantum energy states available to an ordered system are usually much smaller than the number of states available to a system that appears to be disordered.\n\nFrom his famous 1896 \"Lectures on Gas Theory\", Boltzmann diagrams the structure of a solid body, as shown above, by postulating that each molecule in the body has a \"rest position\". According to Boltzmann, if it approaches a neighbor molecule it is repelled by it, but if it moves farther away there is an attraction. This, of course was a revolutionary perspective in its time; many, during these years, did not believe in the existence of either atoms or molecules (see: history of the molecule). According to these early views, and others such as those developed by William Thomson, if energy in the form of heat is added to a solid, so to make it into a liquid or a gas, a common depiction is that the ordering of the atoms and molecules becomes more random and chaotic with an increase in temperature:\n\nThus, according to Boltzmann, owing to increases in thermal motion, whenever heat is added to a working substance, the rest position of molecules will be pushed apart, the body will expand, and this will create more \"molar-disordered\" distributions and arrangements of molecules. These disordered arrangements, subsequently, correlate, via probability arguments, to an increase in the measure of entropy.\n\nIn the quest for ultra-cold temperatures, a temperature lowering technique called adiabatic demagnetization is used, where atomic entropy considerations are utilized which can be described in order-disorder terms. In this process, a sample of solid such as chrome-alum salt, whose molecules are equivalent to tiny magnets, is inside an insulated enclosure cooled to a low temperature, typically 2 or 4 kelvins, with a strong magnetic field being applied to the container using a powerful external magnet, so that the tiny molecular magnets are aligned forming a well-ordered \"initial\" state at that low temperature. This magnetic alignment means that the magnetic energy of each molecule is minimal. The external magnetic field is then reduced, a removal that is considered to be closely reversible. Following this reduction, the atomic magnets then assume random less-ordered orientations, owing to thermal agitations, in the \"final\" state:\n\nThe \"disorder\" and hence the entropy associated with the change in the atomic alignments has clearly increased. In terms of energy flow, the movement from a magnetically aligned state requires energy from the thermal motion of the molecules, converting thermal energy into magnetic energy. Yet, according to the second law of thermodynamics, because no heat can enter or leave the container, due to its adiabatic insulation, the system should exhibit no change in entropy, i.e. Δ\"S\" = 0. The increase in disorder, however, associated with the randomizing directions of the atomic magnets represents an entropy \"increase\"? To compensate for this, the disorder (entropy) associated with the temperature of the specimen must \"decrease\" by the same amount. The temperature thus falls as a result of this process of thermal energy being converted into magnetic energy. If the magnetic field is then increased, the temperature rises and the magnetic salt has to be cooled again using a cold material such as liquid helium.\n\nIn recent years the long-standing use of term \"disorder\" to discuss entropy has met with some criticism.\n\n\n", "id": "7728392", "categories": ["Thermodynamic entropy"], "title": "Entropy (order and disorder)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728394", "text": "60th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nConJose was the 60th World Science Fiction Convention, held in San Jose, California on August 29-September 2, 2002. The convention was held in the McEnery Convention Center, as well as the Fairmont San Jose and the Hilton San Jose & Towers. ConJose was co-chaired by Tom Whitmore and Kevin Standlee and organized under the auspices of San Francisco Science Fiction Conventions.\n\nGuests of Honor for ConJose were writer Vernor Vinge, artist David Cherry, fans Jan and Bjo Trimble, and the imaginary Ferdinand Feghoot. Tad Williams served as toastmaster.\n\n\n\nGlasgow won the vote for the 65th World Science Fiction Convention to be held in 2005, as the only bid that filed.\n\nPatrick Stewart made a special appearance at ConJose. He talked about upcoming films \"Star Trek Nemesis\" and \"X-Men 2\", as well as his experiences on \"\".\n\n\n\n\nIn late 2001 and early 2002, some members of the SFSFC board expressed dissatisfaction about the progress made to date by convention management. It was proposed that the board remove Tom Whitmore as convention chair. The board decided to compromise by naming Tom Whitmore and Kevin Standlee as co-chairs of the convention.\n\nAt the Hugo Awards presentation, Arthur C. Clarke gave a speech via direct video link from his home in Sri Lanka.\n\nThere was a Goth dance as well as a rock and roll dance at the convention (they took place on different nights).\n\n\n", "id": "7728394", "categories": ["2002 in California", "2002 in the United States", "World Science Fiction Convention", "2002 conferences", "Science fiction conventions in the United States", "Culture of San Jose, California"], "title": "60th World Science Fiction Convention"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728404", "text": "Lori Cardille\n\nLori Cardille (born 1954) is an American actress, best known for her role in \"Day of the Dead\" (1985).\n\nCardille is the daughter of Bill \"Chilly Billy\" Cardille. She studied acting at Carnegie Mellon University.\n\nCardille's notable television roles were Winter Austin #1 on the ABC soap opera \"The Edge of Night\", and Carol Baker on soap opera \"Ryan's Hope\". Her most notable film role is Sarah in George A. Romero's \"Day of the Dead\".\n\nShe is the author of the book \"I'm Gonna Tell: ...an Offbeat Tale of Survival\", which chronicles her journey after surviving sexual abuse.\n\nCardille's daughter is actress Kate Rogal. She also has a sister, Maria.\n\n\n\"I'm Gonna Tell: ...an Offbeat Tale of Survival\", Lori Cardille, Jan 20 2001, (978-0595142033)\n\n", "id": "7728404", "categories": ["Carnegie Mellon University College of Fine Arts alumni", "American film actresses", "1954 births", "Living people"], "title": "Lori Cardille"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728410", "text": "Tristram Jones-Parry\n\nTristram Jones-Parry (born 23 July 1947) is a British teacher of mathematics. He was headmaster of Emanuel School (1994–1998) and Westminster School (1998–2005), two independent schools in the UK, and is currently the head of the sixth form at Hampton Court House School. He was educated at Westminster School and Christ Church, Oxford.\n\nUpon his departure from Westminster, Jones-Parry received a great amount of attachment and approval from staff and pupils. He was depicted as \"an excellent leader and educator, who devoted his time entirely for the sake of education rather than to building excessive relationship with external high-society figures, who bears a warm heart under a stern appearance, who will always be remembered for picking up rubbish from the Little Dean's Yard ground.\" There was rumour that he was in argument with the school council over issues concerning the allocation of funds gathered from benefactors. The council thought the fund should be used for improving school facilities while he was of the opinion that the money should be provided to smart students unable to afford fees.\n\nHe became involved in media and political controversy in 2004, when on retiring from independent schools at the age of 58, after 30 years' teaching experience, applied to teach in a state school in order to \"give a bit back\", but was rejected by the General Teaching Council on the basis that he had not completed the PGCE teacher training course which is obligatory for teachers in the state sector but not in the independent schools, insisting also that they were obliged to apply this rule rigidly.\nCritics of the decision labelled it “totally absurd”, given Jones-Parry's long teaching experience in leading independent schools, and as Headmaster of Westminster - frequently cited as the most academically successful school in the country. The growing media controversy surrounding the issue, further spotlighted what many saw as a particularly onerous example of bureaucratic pedantry, leading to pressure on the then Education Secretary Charles Clarke from his own advisers to change the rules. Following a decision that the rules were necessary in order to preserve standards, the National Union of Teachers and NASUWT endorsed it, and the Teacher Training Agency stated that a fast-track route for qualified teachers already exists.\n\nJones-Parry is now head of the innovative independent Sixth Form at Hampton Court House School In 2015 Tristram Jones-Parry was interviewed on BBC Breakfast where he highlighted the benefits of later start times for teenagers.\n\n", "id": "7728410", "categories": ["Alumni of Christ Church, Oxford", "Living people", "1947 births", "Heads of schools in England‎", "People educated at Westminster School, London"], "title": "Tristram Jones-Parry"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728418", "text": "Golf &amp; Mike\n\nGolf & Mike, more often credited in Thailand as Golf-Mike (Thai: กอล์ฟ-ไมค์), is a Thai pop duo artist consisting of brothers Pichaya \"Golf\" Nitipaisalkul and Pirat \"Mike\" Nitipaisalkul, formed under Thailand's biggest entertainment company, GMM Grammy.\n\nIn 2002, the two Nitipaisalkul brothers were auditioned into the 1st generation of G-Junior, a training project by GMM Grammy, Thailand's largest entertainment company. As trainees, Golf & Mike were trained in singing, dancing, acting, and language and they made an appearance at many GMM Grammy concerts. Golf & Mike along with other G-Juniors joined J-Asean Pops Concert 2003 (October 10) where the concert featured Johnny's Entertainment artists, Hideaki Takizawa, Jimmy, KAT-TUN, Ya-Ya-Yah, A.B.C, & Five. The G-Juniors also performed consecutively at Pattaya Music Festival in 2003 & 2004 (all featured Johnny's artists). From these concerts, Golf, Mike and other G-Juniors were spotted by Johnny's crews and later were invited to join the Thai-J Pop Concert in 2004 (Tackey & Tsubasa, KAT-TUN & A.B.C).\n\nIn 2004, Golf & Mike issued their first Thai concert performance as an opening act to Bird Thongchai McIntyre's For Fan Fun Fair Concert. The two boys with B-boy dancing at the middle of the stage started to gain their own fanclub. At the end of 2004, Golf & Mike were invited to join NEWS concert at Tokyo International Forum as special guests and early 2005 they were invited again in Ya-Ya-Yah concert in 2005. Golf & Mike performed \"Epilogue\" at these concerts and were called Thai Junior by Japanese press at the time.\n\nIt took 4 years before the Nitipaisalkul brothers finally debuted as Golf-Mike in October 2005 with their self-titled album, Golf-Mike. Dance-pop track \"Bounce\" was chosen to be the album's first promotional single, and it became a big hit in Thailand. The other tracks, \"Ruang Lek Kaung Tur\", \"Ta Lok Dee\", \"Yah Len Bab Nee,\" and \"Epilogue\" were also widely accepted in the industry. Noted that \"Epilogue\", a cover of Tackey & Tsubasa hits, was given as a present from Johnny Kitagawa for their debut album.\n\nGolf & Mike's first album became a blast in the Thai music industry as theirs first nomination was the Most Popular Artist for the Year award for the Seed Awards 2006, which they also won in February 2006. In March, they were able to hold their first solo concert, Golf-Mike Let's Bounce Concert at Thunder Dome with an audience of 5,000 people.\n\nIn June 2006, Golf & Mike was awarded Best Breakthrough Artist from the Channel [V] Thailand Music Video Awards 2006. Later that month, they showed up in Japan forming Johnny's Entertainment's first ever international unit, Kitty GYM along with popular J-pop figure, Tomohisa Yamashita. \"GYM\", stands for Golf, Yamashita and Mike, respectively with \"Kitty\" standing for the 4 Johnny's Jrs, Hiromitsu Kitayama (Kis-my-ft2), Kei Inoo (J.J. Express, later Hey! Say! JUMP), Shota Totsuka (A.B.C.), and Hikaru Yaotome (Ya-Ya-Yah, later Hey! Say! JUMP). GYM released one single, \"Fever to Future\" (フィーバーとフューチャー) as an official supporter of the Women's Volleyball World Grandprix. The single ranked No. 1 on the Oricon chart. Golf & Mike also performed in 25 rounds of Johnny's Jr no Daibouken Concert.\n\nAt the end of August, Golf & Mike teamed up with other G-Juniors including Chin, Guy, Happy, Madiow, J, Nut, Ken, and Ice as a group called \"G-JR\" (read as G-J-R) releasing an album, \"10 Club\".\n\nOn October 7, G-JR held a concert again called \"The Show Must Go on Concert By Golf-Mike & Friends\" at Impact Arena. The concert was first meant to be the Thai-J Pop Concert with Arashi & Golf-Mike but Arashi had to cancel its participation due to politic occurrences in Thailand at the time. At the end of the month, G-JR won a Virgin Hitz Awards 2006 for Popular Vote New Band.\nAfter finishing the promotion for their album \"10 Club\", Golf & Mike got back to the studios and started working on their second full-length album. By the end of 2006, Golf & Mike decided to release a special album \"365 Days With Golf-Mike\" instead of their second album. This special album included a hit song, Kaub Koon Young Noi Pai.\n\nThey promoted the special album and worked in the studio for the second album until March 8, 2007 when their second album, \"One By One\", officially launched to the stores. The first music video for the album, \"Fight For You,\" took them three whole days to practice for Free-Running. Golf took his first step in song writing for the lyrics of \"Sexy Girl\".\n\nOn March 13, Golf-Mike was voted by Thailand's Entertainment Reporter Association in the Star Entertainment Awards 2007 as the \"Best Group\".\n\nIn June 2007, they released their first Japanese debut single, \"Nippon Ai Ni Ikuyo\". Two months later they released their debut Japanese album \"RIN\" under Johnny's Entertainment production.\n\nIn September 2007, Golf & Mike were invited to perform the Asia Song Festival 2007 in Korea. Along with this introduction, they released the Korea edition of their \"One By One\" album under SM Entertainment. It contains two bonus tracks sung & distributed singles in Korea, Fight For You and Thanks to.\n\nBoth Golf and Mike have taken the leading roles in a Thai series called \"Ubat Ruk Kaam Kaub Fah (Love Beyond Frontier)\" (directed and screen-written by Ping Lampraplerng) that was broadcast on Modern 9 TV in Thailand during the year 2008, and was later followed by a sequel \"Ubat Ruk Kaam Kaub Fah 2.\"\n\nIn late 2008, the brother duo made their moves into Chinese music market by doing their first promo in Malaysia and launched their greatest hit album, Inspiration Greatest Hits.\n\nIn December 2008, Golf & Mike released the awaited third album, \"GET R3ADY\" featuring the collaboration song Let's Get Down with Khan Thaitanium. Their interests in song writing were fulfilled in this album as Golf wrote and produced a song called \"My Superstar\" and Mike wrote a song called \"You\" which became a big hit.\n\nIn May 2009, Brother duo Golf & Mike released their first-ever Chinese album in Malaysia entitled \"Get Ready 2\", including 2 Chinese tracks, 同班同學 (meaning Classmate) and Inspiration.\n\nGolf Mike and Ice Saranyu from GMM Grammy held their first concert in Tokyo, Japan on July 11, 2009 entitled Golf, Mike, Ice Thai Shiki Concert.\n\nFrom October to November 2009, Golf Mike held their first-ever national concert tour around Thailand in 9 provinces, entitled The Closer Golf Mike National Tour Concert By Puriku. Their last concert of the tour was in Bangkok. To support the tour, Golf & Mike wrote & produced their very own song, \"Let's Stay Together\" and sang it as the close song of this tour.\n\nCurrently they are working in collaboration with the Korean duo Mighty Mouth to release an album that will be sold in Thailand and Korea and has performed the song \"No Matter\" for the Star Stage TV program on the 29th of November 2009.\n\nGolf & Mike began the year with superb Michael Jackson dances at This Is It The Concert on February 20–21, the official tribute concert to Michael Jackson held collaboratively by Sony Music (Thailand) and GMM Grammy. Golf & Mike had been known for being an avid fan of Michael Jackson delivered acclaimed \"Smooth Criminal\" performances and also were joined by Chin, also former G-Junior, Peck Palitchoke and Dan Worrawet in the song, \"Billy Jean\" and \"Beat It\".\n\nGolf & Mike still remain commercial favourite stars as they opened the year with 2 new commercials including Fino with Super Junior members and Singto and then also endorsed Puriku Sicily Lemon.\n\nBy March 2010, Golf & Mike mentioned their next project of this year as a disclosed big surprise, rumorly that they were going to take dance class in the USA before coming back with their 4th album.\n\nThey disbanded later and become solo singers.\n\nOn February 1, 2011, Golf officially released his new solo single titled \"Take Me to Ur Bed\".\n\nOn March 1, 2011, Mike (D. Angelo) officially released his new solo single, \"Ayo\".\n\n\n\n\nGolf & Mike have released 3 official photobooks. All published by GMM Grammy's subsidiary, 'In Publishing'.\n\n\nG-Juniors (Golf & Mike, Chin, Guy, Happy, Madiow, J, Nut, Ken, and Ice)\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728418", "categories": ["Sibling musical duos", "Musical groups from Bangkok", "Thai people of Chinese descent"], "title": "Golf &amp; Mike"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728420", "text": "American Beverage Association\n\nThe American Beverage Association (ABA) is a government lobbying group that represents the beverage industry in the United States. Its members include producers and bottlers of soft drinks, such as Coca-Cola and PepsiCo, bottled water, and other non-alcoholic beverages.\n\nThe organization was founded in 1919, and originally named the American Bottlers of Carbonated Beverages. In 1966, it renamed itself the National Soft Drink Association. Then in November 2004, it changed to its current name, \"to better reflect the expanded range of nonalcoholic beverages the industry produces.\"\n\nThe association’s leaders include: Chair Larry Young, president and CEO of Dr Pepper Snapple Group; Vice Chair Hugh Johnson, president of Pepsi-Cola North America; and President Susan Neely, president of the American Beverage Association. \nIts members are bottling companies and other beverage industry firms, including\nBulldog Americas Corporation, several Coca-Cola and Pepsi-Cola bottlers, Pepsi-Americas Inc, and Royal Crown Bottling Corporation.\n\nThe American Beverage Association’s lobbying efforts have recently skyrocketed, largely to finance the industry’s opposition to legislators’ considering increased taxes on soft drinks given their impact on Americans' health. The Association annual spent about $391,000 to more than $690,000 annually on lobbying from 2003 to 2008. In the 2010 election cycle, its lobbying grew more than 1000 percent to $8.67 million. These funds are helping to pay for 25 lobbyists at seven different lobbying firms.\n\nIn September 2009, a \"New England Journal of Medicine\" study called for taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages saying that these actions would cut rates of diet-related diseases and health care costs. Written by experts in nutrition, public health and economics, the study called for an excise tax of a penny per ounce on soft drinks and other beverages that have added sweeteners such as sucrose, high fructose corn syrup or fruit-juice concentrates. The expectation is that such a tax could reduce calorie consumption from sweetened beverages by 10% and create revenue that governments could use to pay for health programs. A report on the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" study can be read here\n\nTo counter these pro-tax efforts, the American Beverage Association and other beverage industry companies have established an \"Americans Against Food Taxes\" coalition and website. Their efforts include national advertising and other actions positioning the proposed taxes as \"taxing hard-working families.\" This group's actions have been opposed by pro-tax organizations including the Center for Science in the Public Interest.\n\nTo date, 33 states have taxes on soft drinks but they are \"too low to affect consumption and the revenues are not earmarked for health programs,\" according to the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" study.\n\nMaureen Storey, senior vice president for science policy and author of many of the ABA's press releases and official statements\n\n", "id": "7728420", "categories": ["Industry trade groups based in the United States", "Organizations established in 1919", "1919 establishments in the United States"], "title": "American Beverage Association"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728422", "text": "Stabler\n\nStabler may refer to:\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728422", "categories": [], "title": "Stabler"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728430", "text": "Don R. Christensen\n\nDonald Ragnvald Christensen (July 6, 1916 – October 18, 2006) was an American animator, cartoonist, illustrator, writer and inventor. He was sometimes credited as \"Don Arr\".\n\nChristensen was a graduate of the Minnesota School of Art in Minneapolis. After finishing school he worked for the Walt Disney Studio from 1937 to 1941. He left the studio after the 1941 \"Snow White\" production strike, during which he met his wife-to-be, Ivy-Carol Van Horn, a special effects detail artist. Christensen then worked briefly at Warner Bros. studio, primarily as a storyboard artist for Bob Clampett's animation unit. After leaving Warner Bros. he worked independently for nearly four decades as a storyboard writer and artist, primarily for Western Publishing, Dell and Gold Key comic books, as well as Hanna Barbera, Walter Lantz Productions, DePatie-Freleng Enterprises, and other cartoon studios. He wrote and provided illustrations for such comic book titles as \"Magnus, Robot Fighter,\" \"Donald Duck,\" and \"Uncle Scrooge\". He was involved with the Southern California Comic Artist Professionals Society for many years, and was a past President of the Comic Art Professional Society (CAPS).\n\nChristensen died in Las Vegas, Nevada on October 18, 2006, at the age of 90 of natural causes. He beat the odds that he would not survive past 40, having been a Type I diabetic since the age of 13.\n\n", "id": "7728430", "categories": ["1916 births", "Walt Disney Animation Studios people", "Male television writers", "American comics writers", "American storyboard artists", "Animators from Minnesota", "Hanna-Barbera people", "Filmation people", "American comics artists", "American television writers", "2006 deaths", "American cartoonists", "American male screenwriters"], "title": "Don R. Christensen"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728442", "text": "Upside Down\n\nUpside Down or Upsidedown may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728442", "categories": [], "title": "Upside Down"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728446", "text": "Vilenas Vadapalas\n\nVilenas Vadapalas (born 1954) is a Lithuanian lawyer. He became the first representative of Lithuania at the Court of First Instance (now called the General Court) of the European Union, when he was appointed in 2004. Vadapalas specializes in the fields of public international law, law of the European Union, and international human rights law.\n\nVadapalas graduated from the Law Faculty of Vilnius University. He obtained his doctorate degree from the University of Moscow and habilitated doctorate from the University of Warsaw. Vadapalas worked as professor of international law at Vilnius University. He published several textbooks for law students, including \"Tarptautinė teisė\" (1998 and 2006).\n\nHe works since October 2016 by \"Advokatų kontora Vadapalas, Vaitekūnas ir partneriai EUROLEX\".\n", "id": "7728446", "categories": ["Vilnius University alumni", "International law scholars", "Lithuanian judges of international courts and tribunals", "Moscow State University alumni", "20th-century Lithuanian lawyers", "Lithuanian officials of the European Union", "1954 births", "Living people", "Vilnius University faculty", "Lithuanian legal scholars", "Lawyers from Vilnius", "General Court (European Union) judges", "21st-century Lithuanian lawyers"], "title": "Vilenas Vadapalas"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728450", "text": "Arlen Harris\n\nArlen Quincy Harris (born April 22, 1980 in Chester, Pennsylvania) is a former NFL running back played for the St. Louis Rams, Detroit Lions, and the Atlanta Falcons. He played college football for the University of Virginia and Hofstra University. He won a PIAA State Championship at Downingtown High School.\n\nArlen was considered the top 3 running back coming out of Downingtown, Pa where he won a PIAA State Championship. He also played in the Big 33 All-Star game vs the top players in Ohio and walked away with MVP.\nIn college, Harris did not play either his junior year, due to an injury to his knee, or his senior year because he transferred and lost that year's eligibility. So, Harris did not play football for two years until he made his return to football in an all-star game in Las Vegas and was named MVP.\n\nHarris was undrafted, but he was signed by the NFL's St. Louis Rams. He played three seasons with the Rams, starting three games. He moved to the Detroit Lions in 2006, also starting three games there. He ended his career with the Atlanta Falcons with a knee injury in the last pre-season game vs the Baltimore Ravens.\n\nHarris now runs his own business, Run It Performance, that develops top youth running backs. He is also heavily involved in the community with his foundation, church, and youth programs. Harris has been married to his wife Heather for 16 years, and together they have three children Caeli, Arlen Jr., and Ayden.\n", "id": "7728450", "categories": ["Detroit Lions players", "1980 births", "Hofstra Pride football players", "American football running backs", "Living people", "Virginia Cavaliers football players", "St. Louis Rams players"], "title": "Arlen Harris"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728451", "text": "Rameses (mascot)\n\nRameses is the ram mascot of the North Carolina Tar Heels. Three versions of Rameses appear at UNC sporting events. One is a member of the UNC cheerleading team in an anthropomorphic ram costume; the second is also an anthropomorphic ram costume, and the third is a live Dorset Horn sheep named Rameses who attends Carolina football games with his horns painted Carolina blue.\n\nThe origin of a ram as North Carolina's mascot dates back to 1924. In 1922, the star fullback, Jack Merritt, was given the nickname \"the battering ram\" for his performance on the field, as well as for an initiation ritual he created for male freshman students. Vic Huggins, North Carolina's head cheerleader at the time, suggested the idea of a ram mascot to the athletic business manager, Charles T. Woollen, and had the idea approved. Charles gave Vic $25 to purchase a ram. Rameses the First was shipped from Texas, just in time for the pep rally.\n\nThe first appearance of Rameses was at a pep rally before the football game against Virginia Military Institute on November 8, 1924. After the pep rally the ram was taken to Emerson Field. Through three quarters the game was scoreless. Late in the fourth quarter Bunn Hackney was called out to attempt a field goal. Before stepping out on the field he rubbed Rameses' head. Just a few seconds later Hackney kicked a 30-yard field goal that eventually won the game for the Tar Heels; the final score was 3-0. Rameses has been a fixture on the sidelines at UNC football games ever since. The current Rameses ram is under the care of the Hogan family of Chapel Hill.\n\nThe origin of the costumed version of Rameses dates back to the 1987-88 season. Auditions were held and a senior, Eric Chilton from Mount Airy, North Carolina, was given the honor to be the first mascot. Since auditions were held in the middle of the school year he only served for half a year and only showed up in a few basketball games in early 1988. The costume was made locally and looked different from the one used today.\n\nOn the evening of October 26, 2015, Rameses Jr., or RJ for short, made his debut during Late Night with Roy, North Carolina Tar Heels men's basketball's annual Midnight Madness event. Brown Walters, the director of spirit programs at UNC Chapel Hill, told \"The Daily Tar Heel\" it took a year to come up with the concept of RJ. RJ was conceived in part to expand the reach of UNC Chapel Hill's spirit program. RJ's design, featuring a less muscular body, Carolina blue horns, blue eyes and Jordan-brand apparel, was also developed to appeal to children. Walters said small children were frightened by the current version of the Rameses costume.\n\nIn February 1996, Rameses XXIII was killed in his pasture at the Hogan farm. An attacker slashed the ram's throat and cut off its left front leg, stabbing it as many as 10 times along its chest and neck. State veterinarians stated that the slash to its throat was most likely the fatal wound. Police later charged 26-year-old Scott Wade. Wade stumbled onto the Hogan farm drunk at the time of the slaying. Investigators believed Wade killed the ram because he was hungry. Wade was later charged with misdemeanor animal cruelty.\n\nOn March 23, 2007, Jason Ray, a member of the UNC Chapel Hill cheerleading squad, was struck by a vehicle near a Hilton Hotel on Route 4 in Fort Lee, New Jersey. The Tar Heel men's basketball team had advanced to the 2007 East Regional Semifinals, and the Fort Lee Hilton was the Tar Heel team hotel. Ray was walking to a convenience store to buy a burrito and a soda before he was due to portray Rameses in the game against the USC Trojans. Ray died on March 26, 2007 at the Hackensack University Medical Center as a result of the injuries sustained in the accident.\n\nRay was an honors student and was due to graduate that May with a degree in business administration and a minor in religious studies. He was an Eagle Scout with Troop 38 in Concord, NC, had gone on three missionary trips (Haiti, Honduras, and Puerto Rico) to work with children, had visited the Sistine Chapel, ran with the bulls in Spain, and spent a summer studying in Copenhagen, Denmark. Ray was also an active member of InterVarsity Christian Fellowship, his church choir, and was the lead singer in the band Nine PM Traffic.\n\nFour people received organ transplants because of Ray's decision to become an organ donor.\n\nOn April 16, 2016, UNC Hospitals dedicated its transplant clinic to Ray. An endowment fund, also dedicated to Ray, was started to raise funds for patients unable to pay for their transplants. The Ray family pledged to raise one million dollars for this endowment fund.\nOn September 21, 2017, it was announced Rameses and RJ would wear patches commemorating honoring Ray's memory for all sporting events held during the 2017-18 season, starting with the 2017 North Carolina Tar Heels football team's game against Duke.\n\n", "id": "7728451", "categories": ["Atlantic Coast Conference mascots", "University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill traditions"], "title": "Rameses (mascot)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728454", "text": "Primatte chromakey technology\n\nPrimatte is a brand of chroma key software used in motion picture, television and photographic host applications to remove solid colored backgrounds (greenscreen or bluescreen usually) and replace them with transparency to facilitate ‘background replacement’. It uses a unique algorithm based on three multi-faceted polyhedrons floating in RGB colorspace that are used to isolate color regions in the foreground image. Primatte is often referred to as a compositing technology and is usually used as a plug-in for host products such as Adobe After Effects, Adobe Photoshop, Autodesk Media and Entertainment Inferno or Flame, Eyeon Fusion and several other compositing and editing software packages.\nPrimatte is usually activated on a foreground image with a person or other foreground object filmed or digitized against a solid colored background or backing screen; usually a bluescreen or a greenscreen. The solid colored background area is removed and replaced with transparency. This allows the user to replace the solid colored background with a background image of his choice.\n\nIf the foreground object was filmed close to the backing screen or with less than ideal lighting conditions, the foreground object will usually have ‘spill’ somewhere on it. This is most common when filming blonde people against a blue or greenscreen as their translucent hair will absorb the backing screen color. Such ‘colorspill’ can be removed and replaced with several options to achieve a more realistic result.\n\nAnother problem is chromakeying images that were created on film stock is that some film stocks have a distinct ‘film grain’ to them. A large amount of film grain will often cause rough edges around the foreground object. Rough edges can be minimized to achieve a smoother transition between the edges of the ‘chroma keyed’ foreground object and the user selected background image.\n\nThe Primatte algorithm was created by Yasushi Mishima while working at IMAGICA Corporation in Tokyo, Japan in 1992. The basic algorithm utilized in Primatte was originally presented at the 8th NICOGRAPH Conference and the 23rd Imaging Technology Conference and a U.S. patent was granted in 1994.\n\nIt was initially released as a stand-alone product on Silicon Graphics workstations but it was later determined to be more useful as a ‘plug-in’ actuated from within a host application. This alleviated the need to save the images, exit the host compositing application, start Primatte, load the images, create the chroma key, save the images, start the host application, load the images and continue creating the composition. Since then it has been ported to almost every major compositing and editing software application on the market. The current version is the fourth generation of the Primatte technology and has features such as ‘Auto-Compute’ that automatically detects the backing screen color, eliminates it and does clean-up on the foreground and backing screen area noise. It is available on the Microsoft Windows, Red Hat Linux, SGI IRIX and the Apple Macintosh platforms.\n\nThe Primatte chromakey algorithm is a method of color space segmentation, where Primatte segments all the colors in the foreground image into one of four separate categories. The result is a 'spill suppressed' foreground image and a matte which is used to apply the modified foreground to a suitable background.\n\nPrimatte works in 3D RGB color space. Here is a visual representation of the Primatte algorithm after an image has been processed.\nThe user essentially creates three concentric, multi-faceted polyhedrons. These can be pictured as three globes (or polyhedrons or polys), one within the other, which share a common center point. The creation of these polyhedrons separates all possible foreground colors into one of four regions; inside the small polyhedron (1), between the small and medium polyhedrons (2), between the medium and the large polyhedrons (3) and outside the large polyhedron (4).\n\n\n", "id": "7728454", "categories": ["Special effects", "Film and video technology"], "title": "Primatte chromakey technology"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728465", "text": "Greek destroyer Psara\n\nPsara () was a Greek destroyer of the \"Dardo\" class, which served with the Hellenic Navy during the early stages of the Second World War. It was named after the Aegean island of Psara, which played an important role in the Greek War of Independence, and was the fourth ship to bear this name.\n\nShe was constructed in Sestri Ponente, Italy, by Cantieri Odero, and commissioned by the Hellenic Navy in 1933. After the outbreak of the Greco-Italian War, she participated in all three naval raids against Italian shipping in the Strait of Otranto (14–15 November 1940, 15–16 December 1940, and 4–5 January 1941), and had significant anti-submarine activity. During the German invasion of Greece, she was attacked by German bomber aircraft on April 20, 1941 and sunk in the Saronic Gulf near Megara, with 37 members of her crew as casualties.\n", "id": "7728465", "categories": ["Ships sunk by German aircraft", "Destroyers sunk by aircraft", "World War II shipwrecks in the Aegean Sea", "Maritime incidents in April 1941", "1932 ships", "Ships built in Italy", "Kountouriotis-class destroyers", "World War II destroyers of Greece"], "title": "Greek destroyer Psara"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728468", "text": "Greenlough GAC\n\nSaint Oliver Plunkett's GAC Greenlough () is a Gaelic Athletic Association club based in Clady/Greenlough, County Londonderry, Northern Ireland. The club is a member of Derry GAA and currently caters for Gaelic football and camogie, and also competes in Scór. The club is named after Irish martyr Saint Oliver Plunkett.\n\nGreenlough has won the Derry Intermediate Football Championship three times and the Derry Junior Football Championship three times.\n\nGreenlough fields Gaelic football teams at U8, U10, U12, U14, U16, Minor, Reserve and Senior levels. They currently compete in the Derry Senior Championship and Division 1 of the Derry ACFL. Their current manager is Niall Conway.\n\nGreenlough also fields camogie teams at various age-groups. The camogie teams compete as St Columba's Camogie Club, although they use the Greenlough grounds.\n\nSt Oliver Plunkett's GAC Greenlough was founded in 1939 by Michael Henry, Patrick Rankin and Louis Madden. Despite a lack of silverware during the period, the 1940s saw arguably the greatest ever Greenlough team. Players such as Thomas Edward McCloskey, Jimmy Cassidy and the McErlean brothers (Eoin and Henry) played on the Derry Senior side of the time. Jimmy Cassidy in November 2007 was voted as the Right-Corner Forward for the All Time Star Derry team. The club first major success at Senior level came in 1953 when they won the Derry Junior Football Championship and added a second Junior Championship in 1965. In Scór Greenlough has won two All Ireland titles; in Senior Céilí dancing and in Junior Ballad groups.\n\nThe club won the Derry Intermediate Football Championship for the first time in 1976. The new park and pavilion were opened in the GAA's centenary year (1984) and are dedicated to Saint Oliver Plunkett. The Derry Senior Football Championship final that year between Dungiven and Castledawson was held at the venue. Two years later, Greenlough won the Derry Junior Championship for a third time.\n\nOn Easter Sunday 2002 Greenlough reopened their pavilion which was damaged in an arson attack two years previously. The opening took place after the final of the Ulster U-21 Football Championship final which was hosted by Greenlough. The club won the 2005 Derry Senior Football League Second division and hence were promoted to the First Division and the Derry Senior Championship, however the club were relegated in the following season.\n\nIn May 2014, the club celebrated its 75th anniversary with a gala dinner and other commemorative events.\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728468", "categories": ["Gaelic Athletic Association clubs in County Londonderry"], "title": "Greenlough GAC"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728475", "text": "Beige catshark\n\nThe beige catshark (\"Parmaturus bigus\") is a cat shark of the family Scyliorhinidae, The first recorded specimen was a female recorded off the coast of Queensland, Australia around Lord Howe Island. Its length was 72 cm.\n\nRecently, a number of both male and female specimens (unpublished data) were captured in the waters off New Zealand, at the edge of the EEZ (exclusive economic zone). To date, very little is known about the ecology of this species. Scientists are currently studying the sensory systems of this catshark in order to reveal information about its ecology and ultimately behaviour. The reproduction is of this catshark is oviparous.\n\n", "id": "7728475", "categories": ["Parmaturus", "Fauna of Queensland", "Marine fauna of Eastern Australia"], "title": "Beige catshark"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728479", "text": "United States coinage type set\n\nUnited States coinage type set is a visual collection of each of the types of coins produced by the US Mints. A \"Type set\" collection is enjoyed by some collectors of coins who try to collect one example of as many types of coins as they can.\n\nDue to various reasons (including prohibitive cost), collectors will sometimes group several different coins together as one \"type.\" For example, one could collect a Liberty Seated dime, quarter, and half dollar, and call that their example of a Liberty Seated coin for each denomination. Or, they could choose to collect an example of sub-types within the Liberty Seated design, including the with and without arrows at date, and with and without mottos.\n\nAdditionally, delineating sub-types within a particular design is not always consistent. For example, almost all type collectors consider the 1909 \"V.D.B.\" Lincoln cent to be different from the 1909 no-\"V.D.B.\" Lincoln cent (where the designer's initials, V.D.B., were displayed on the bottom of the reverse and removed about a month later). However, the \"V.D.B.\" initials were returned to the Lincoln cent in 1918 on the bottom of the bust on the obverse, and almost no type collector considers this a separate type. Likewise in the Lincoln cent series, the composition change in 1943 to steel and the composition change in 1982 from bronze to copper-plated zinc are considered separate types by almost all, but the brass composition used in 1944-1946 is not considered a separate type from the 1947 return to bronze. (The Lincoln cent series is full of other examples, including modifications to the size of Lincoln's bust during the early 1970s).\n\nConsequently, each collector will need to decide for themselves how specific they wish to be when putting together a U.S. coin type set, though the decision is often made for them if they choose specific albums, such as the very popular Dansco 7070.\n\n", "id": "7728479", "categories": [], "title": "United States coinage type set"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728483", "text": "Sara Sadíqova\n\nSadíqova Sara Ğärif qızı (pronounced ) Sara Sadíqova; Tatar Cyrillic: Садыйкова Сара Гариф кызы; ; 1 November 1906 – 7 June 1986) was a Tatar actress, singer (soprano), and composer. Honoured Artist of Tatar ASSR (1937), People's Artist of Tatar ASSR (1977), Honoured Worker of Culture of the Russian SFSR (1984). In 1938–1948 she was a soloist of Musa Cälil Tatar Opera and Ballet Theatre. Sara performed parts in operas and musical comedies including \"Saniä\", \"Qaçqın\" (\"Runaway\"), \"Ğäliäbanu\", \"Başmağım\" (\"My Slippers\"), \"İldar\", musical dramas \"On Qandır\", \"The Employer\". She is an author both of many song and musical comedies \"Mäxäbbät cırı\" (\"The Song of Love\") (1971), and \"Kiäwlär\" (\"Sons-in-law\") (1972) in collaboration with R. Ğöbäydullin. Sara Sadíqova is a laureate of the Ğabdulla Tuqay Tatar ASSR State Prize (1990, after her death).\n\nShe was born as Bibisara Sadíqova on November 1, 1906 in Kazan, Russian Empire. She graduated from a famous school for girls and entered teacher's training college.\n\nIn 1921 Bibisara performed her first part in the musical charity performance \"Buydaq\" (\"The Bachelor\"). One of the college's teachers, Tatar composer Soltan Ğäbäşi, sent her to the Moscow Conservatory, where she studied from 1922–1928. In 1934–1938 she worked at the Tatar Opera Studio within Moscow Conservatory.\n\nIn 1930–1934 Sara Sadíqova worked in the troupe of the Tatar Academic Theater. She performed one of the first Tatar operas \"Eşçe\" (\"The Worker\") in the 1930s.\n\nIn 1942 Sara started to compose songs, creating the tango \"The Expectation\" on lyrics of A. Yerikeyev. Her favorite styles were the tango and foxtrot. She composed more than 400 popular songs as well as music for 30 plays.\n\nSara Sadíqova died on 7 June 1986 and was buried at the Memorial Yaña-Tatar Bistäse (Novotatarskoye) cemetery.\n\n\n Sara Sadíqova\n", "id": "7728483", "categories": ["20th-century composers", "Russian composers", "Russian operatic sopranos", "20th-century opera singers", "Tatar music", "Tatar culture", "1986 deaths", "People from Kazan", "Tatar people of Russia", "1906 births"], "title": "Sara Sadíqova"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728491", "text": "P. P. Ramachandran\n\nP. P. Ramachandran is a Malayalam poet. His poems are collected in two books, \"Kanekkane\" (Thrissur: Current Books) and \"Rantay Murichathu\" (Cut into Two) (Thrissur: Current Books).\n\nHis collection \"Kanekkane\" won the Kerala Sahitya Akademi Award for Poetry in the year 2003. \"Katte Kadale\" won the P. Kunhiraman Nair Poetry Award in 2013. He received the Cherusseri Award in 2014. He has also received awards established in memory of V. D. Kumaran, Cherukad, Kunjupillai, Changampuzha and V. K. Unnikrishnan.\n\nHe is a high school teacher in A.V.High School, Ponnani.\nHe lives in Vattamkulam, a small town in Malappuram district.\n\n", "id": "7728491", "categories": ["Malayalam poets", "Poets from Kerala", "Malayalam-language writers", "People from Malappuram", "20th-century Indian poets", "1962 births", "Living people", "Indian schoolteachers"], "title": "P. P. Ramachandran"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728498", "text": "Arthur Paul Pedrick\n\nArthur Paul Pedrick (3 September 1918 – 15 August 1976) was a prolific British inventor who filed for 162 United Kingdom patents between 1962 and his death in 1976. or 1977. His inventions were notable for their humour and almost complete lack of practical applicability.\n\nVery little is known about Pedrick. He worked for many years as a patent examiner at the United Kingdom Patent Office but that it was only after his retirement that he began filing patent applications for his inventions. The Patent Office has stringent restrictions on improbable gadgets, but Pedrick's familiarity with the process enabled him to satisfy the requirements and get his applications granted.\n\nDuring this period he was resident in Selsey, Sussex, England, according to his patents. Sometimes his residence would further be listed as \"One-Man Photo-Electric Research Laboratories\", or \"One Man Think Tank Nuclear Fusion Research Laboratories\", and so forth. These laboratories were staffed by himself and a ginger coloured cat, sometimes referred to as \"Ginger\" although it is not clear whether this was actually his name. Ginger was of great help to Pedrick in developing his inventions. Unfortunately, it is recounted in some of the patents how Ginger was unable to secure financing to put the inventions into practice.\n\nHis patent for laser induced fusion includes these autobiographical notes:\n\nIt is my personal experience based on a severe bout of Dive bombing by Stuka dive bombers in a light cruiser HMS \"Dido\", in 1941, evacuating mainly New Zealanders from Crete, who had been sent in by the late Sir Winston Churchill, but who, after the battle with the Nazi paratroops had made the island untenable, Admiral Cunningham, the Naval C in C in Alexandria, realised must be got out if possible, that the surface warships just cannot survive attacks by large numbers of aircraft, on their own, and it is only the chance of fate that I happened to be in After Engine Room of the ship, when a bomb came down on B turret and created a carnage of twisted steel and bodies forward, that I am writing this now, but the memory of the experience still gives me a \"nightmare\" at times.\n\nI have suffered all my life even from a by product of the 1914–18 war even if I was born after it. It is a personal fact that my father was a Lieutenant (E) serving in the disastrous K class submarines, by which the Royal Navy tried to create a Submarine which could steam on the surface at 20 knots to keep up with the Fleet, and he died of a lung infection created by the appalling conditions in such submarines, even before I was born. If a women [sic] is in bad metal [sic] state when she is in pregnant, it is obvious that she can pass on her state of mind to the foetus. This has made me a nervous individual all my life, and there are many times in my life I wish I had never been born. There are endless arguments about the subject of abortion on the \"rights of the foetus\", and these could all be settled if, in some way, the future could be predicted for the foetus and it could decide whether it \"wanted to be born\".\n\nMany of Pedrick's inventions related to his cat, Ginger. His crowning achievement in this respect was patent GB1426698 titled \"Photon Push-Pull Radiation Detector For Use in Chromatically Selective Cat Flap Control And 1000 Megaton Earth-Orbital Peace-Keeping Bomb\".\n\nThe idea was to detect the difference in fur colour between a ginger cat and a black cat. He came up with this idea because a black cat named \"Blackie\" from next door kept trying to steal his own cat's food. However, with Pedrick's new catflap design, if Blackie attempted to use the cat-flap he would not be allowed in. Ginger was impressed with the idea, and further suggested that the concept could be applied as a nuclear deterrent. Ginger's concern over the Cold War and the nuclear arsenals threatening the world was a regular motivator for Pedrick's inventions.\n\nPedrick was also concerned with the safety of his fellow man and thus described, in GB1453920 an \"Apparatus For Extinguishing Fires in High Rise Block Buildings of Uniform Transverse Cross-Section Or Plan\".\n\nHere, Pedrick suggests that fire curtains could be secured at the roof level of a high-rise building. When released, they would envelope substantially the entire building. The curtains could be provided with apertures which when the curtain is released are located opposite rooms in the building, these rooms being designated as ones in which the occupants should congregate in the event of fire. The concern however was that such large curtains would have prevented escape from the building as well as increase the risk of suffocation.\n\nPedrick's concern for his fellow man is again shown in GB1047735, titled \"Arrangements for the transfer of fresh water from one location on the earth's surface to another at a different latitude, for the purpose of irrigation, with pumping energy derived from the effect of the earth's rotation about the polar axis\".\n\nIn this patent, Pedrick describes in extremely long detail, with pages of mathematical equations, how snow and ice could be passed along pipelines from the Antarctic to irrigate the dry Australian outback, creating a \"granary of the East\" that could feed the burgeoning population of the world. Since the flow of water from one region to the other through such pipelines would not be practicable, according to Pedrick, the suggestion is to instead compress the snow into hard balls that could be fired along these pipelines as projectiles.\n\nPedrick would often discuss, within his patents, the problems in the world that led him to his inventions and would also recount conversations between himself and his ginger cat. Some of these tangents in his patents show Pedrick to be a thoughtful, if slightly eccentric man, who was deeply concerned with the well-being of others and for the future of mankind, as well as being dismissive of modern capitalism.\n\nCharacteristic observations on the world around him include the following:\n\n\"Funny\" patents, such as those published by Pedrick, and their popularisation in the media upset many patent examiners who feel they tend to trivialise the subject.\n\nA selection from over 160 patents filed between 1962 and 1975.\n\n", "id": "7728498", "categories": ["English inventors", "Pranksters", "1976 deaths", "1918 births", "Patent examiners"], "title": "Arthur Paul Pedrick"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728499", "text": "Thumelicus\n\nThumelicus (born 15 AD; died before 47 AD, probably in 30 or 31) was the only son of the Cherusci leader Arminius and his wife Thusnelda, daughter of the pro-Roman tribal leader Segestes.\n\nIn May, 15 AD, Arminius besieged Segestes at his stronghold, where Thusnelda, then pregnant, was staying. The Roman commander, Germanicus, a nephew of Emperor Tiberius, broke through the siege and took her prisoner. Thusnelda and the infant Thumelicus were presented in Rome in the Triumph Germanicus was allowed to celebrate in May 17 AD. Afterwards, the captives were spared, but were sent to exile in Ravenna, where Thumelicus probably was raised and trained as a gladiator. \n\nTacitus promises to recount his fate \"at the proper time,\" i.e., when his Annals treat the year in question — but there is no further mention in the extant copy. A major gap exists for 30 and 31 AD, however, so it could be that Thumelicus was killed in the arena at the age of 15 or 16.\n\n", "id": "7728499", "categories": ["15 births", "1st-century deaths", "Cherusci warriors", "Roman gladiators"], "title": "Thumelicus"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728526", "text": "Directorate-General for Neighbourhood and Enlargement Negotiations\n\nThe Directorate-General for Neighbourhood and Enlargement Negotiations is a Directorate-General of the European Commission. The body is responsible for the enlargement process of the European Union and for the European Neighbourhood Policy. The European Union over the years has expanded to 28 members from the first six Member States who signed the Treaty of Rome.\n\n\n", "id": "7728526", "categories": ["Directorates-General in the European Commission", "Enlargement of the European Union"], "title": "Directorate-General for Neighbourhood and Enlargement Negotiations"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728535", "text": "Iyseden Christie\n\nIyseden Christie (born 14 November 1976 in Coventry) is an English footballer who plays for Bedworth United, where he plays as a striker.\n\nBorn in Coventry, West Midlands, Christie began his career as a trainee at Coventry City in 1995. He made his FA Premier League debut on 23 September 1995, appearing as a second-half substitute for Paul Cook in Coventry's 5–1 defeat away to Blackburn Rovers. He made one further appearance, in the League Cup before joining Bournemouth on loan in November 1996, followed by a loan spell with Mansfield Town from February 1997.\n\nHe joined Mansfield Town on a free transfer in August 1997 and made over 90 league and cup appearances for Mansfield in two seasons. He joined Leyton Orient for a fee of £40,000 in July 1999, and made over 60 league and cup appearances for Orient in three seasons, before returning to Mansfield Town in August 2002. He made over 70 appearances in his second spell at Mansfield but was released by the club after defeat in the Third Division play-off Final in May 2004.\n\nIn 1997, he scored a four-minute hat-trick against Stockport County in a League Cup first-round tie. This remains the record for the fastest League Cup hat-trick.\n\nChristie signed for Kidderminster Harriers at the start of the 2004–05 season, but injury restricted him to just one start and a handful of substitute appearances that season.\n\nIn January 2006, after having scored 10 goals in 23 league games, he was sold to Rochdale along with teammate Mark Jackson for a joint £35,000 transfer fee. In August 2006, Christie returned to Kidderminster on loan until December.\n\nFollowing the completion of this loan spell Christie re-signed for Kidderminster on an 18-month contract in January 2007.\n\nHe joined Stevenage Borough when his contract with Kidderminster expired at the end of June 2008. He made just three appearances for Stevenage, before joining fellow Conference National side Kettering Town on loan on 2 September 2008 until 17 January 2009. During this period he scored 6 goals in 15 games, including playing against Premier League side Fulham in the FA Cup. It was believed this loan spell was to be ended early for a loan move to York City to go ahead, but this deal fell through.\n\nOn 31 December 2008 it was announced that Christie was to make his loan deal at Kettering permanent on 1 January 2009, in a five-figure deal. However, on 2 February 2009 he left Stevenage to join Torquay United.\n\nHe signed for non-League King's Lynn in August 2009 after a short period on trial with Hibernians in Malta, following termination of the loan agreement with Torquay at the end of the 2008–09 season.\n\nOn 11 September 2009, Christie signed for Conference North side A.F.C. Telford United, but left after two games.\n\nHe played one game for his local team Coventry Sphinx, before making his debut for Farnborough as an 80th-minute substitute on 21 October.\n\nOn 13 November 2009, it was announced that Christie had joined Conference National side Tamworth on non-contract terms. On the same day he was joined by his former Kidderminster team mate Simon Brown, who joined the club on a one-month loan deal from Wrexham.\n\nAfter playing for Tamworth till the end of the 2009–10 season, he rejoined Kettering Town for their 2010–11 campaign.\n\nOn 30 March 2011, Christie joined promotion chasing Conference North side Nuneaton Town until the end of the season. Christie's first game for the club was a 3–0 away win at Gloucester City. Justin Marsden's goal came from a superb bit of individual guile and skill to beat two defenders by Christie before squaring the ball to Marsden to slot home.\n\nFollowing a successful trial, Christie returned to The Lambs.\n\nIn the second qualifying round of the 2014–15 FA Cup on 27 September 2014, Christie scored six times against Ellistown & Ibstock United as Halesowen Town advanced to the third qualifying round of the FA Cup with a 7–1 win.\n\nFollowing at stint at Sutton Coldfield Town, Christie signed for Southern Football League side Bedworth United in January 2016.\n", "id": "7728535", "categories": ["Coventry City F.C. players", "Association football forwards", "1976 births", "Leyton Orient F.C. players", "Sutton Coldfield Town F.C. players", "Stevenage F.C. players", "Tamworth F.C. players", "Kidderminster Harriers F.C. players", "Rochdale A.F.C. players", "Sportspeople from Coventry", "English Football League players", "Torquay United F.C. players", "Living people", "English footballers", "Halesowen Town F.C. players", "National League (English football) players", "Alfreton Town F.C. players", "A.F.C. Bournemouth players", "Kettering Town F.C. players", "Nuneaton Borough F.C. players", "Premier League players", "A.F.C. Telford United players", "Coventry Sphinx F.C. players", "Northern Football League players", "King's Lynn F.C. players", "Bedworth United F.C. players", "Mansfield Town F.C. players", "Farnborough F.C. players", "Barwell F.C. players"], "title": "Iyseden Christie"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728538", "text": "List of current Premier League and English Football League managers\n\nThere are 92 association football teams in the top four tiers of English football, all of which have a manager, or pair of joint managers, sometimes given the alternative title of head coach. The Premier League and the English Football League are the only fully professional football leagues in England. The Premier League consists of 20 clubs at the top of the English football league system. The remaining 72 clubs are split into the three divisions of the English Football League: the Championship, League One and League Two.\n\nSome managers listed have had more than one spell in charge at their current club or had spells at more than one club, however this table deals only with their current appointment. This list includes every manager currently managing a club in the Premier League and the English Football League, in order of the date that they took up their appointment: this is not necessarily the date on which they were appointed, so there may be a discrepancy between the date appointed and the time as manager.\n\nJim Bentley is the longest-serving current manager, having managed Morecambe since 2011.\n\n", "id": "7728538", "categories": ["Lists of association football managers"], "title": "List of current Premier League and English Football League managers"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728541", "text": "Pattaravakkam\n\nPattaravakkam is a small sub-urban locality in the north-west part of Chennai, India. It comes under the Ambattur municipality and situated along the Chennai-Mumbai railway. Many of the residents are suburban commuters and work in one of major industrial complexes of North Chennai. It also houses all the textile industry. The neighbourhood is served by Pattaravakkam railway station of the Chennai Suburban Railway.located around 3 Kms away from ambattur bus stand and railway station. It harbour lot of small scale industries like paints, dyes, chemical pharmaceutical, engineering industries. Good road connects to city. Large scale of woman are employed in these industries.\n", "id": "7728541", "categories": ["Tiruvallur district"], "title": "Pattaravakkam"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728546", "text": "Colorado Referendum J\n\nCurrent law in Colorado requires school districts to set aside money from within the total budget for specific purposes, such as buildings and insurance, books and other school supplies, and services for \"at-risk\" students. These specific budgetary earmarks account on average for approximately $600 per student according to 2004-2005 school year figures — roughly eight percent of district operating budgets. Referendum J proposes a new requirement, that each school district spend a minimum of 65% of its operating budget on a set of budget items specified in the referendum.\n\nReferendum J would require that 65% of school district operating budgets be spent on the following budgetary items:\n\nNotably absent from the budgetary earmarks in Referendum J are:\n\nSchools that fall short of budgetary requirements set forth in Referendum J would be required to increase budgetary earmarks for specified items by two percent per year until minimums are met. Provisions are made for districts to request a waiver for a period of one year. Referendum J allows voters to exempt specific districts from its budgetary requirements, and standardizes budget submission formats to the state to facilitate tracking of Referendum J compliance.\n\nThe Colorado Department of Education's oversight of Referendum J requirements is expected to increase state costs by approximately $62,000 annually. School district costs may also be increased by requiring more detailed expenditure tracking, budget planning, and budget submission procedures introduced with Referendum J if it passes. Referendum J does not increase funding for public education.\n\nAlso on the 2006 ballot is Amendment 39, a proposed amendment to the state Constitution, which also proposes changes to school district budgetary requirements. Notably different is the fact that Amendment 39 does not require that any of the earmarked 65% of funding go to principals, support staff, or support services provided at the school level.\n\nThe two ballot items also define a district's operating budget differently, which can affect various districts differently. Using the 2004-2005 school year as an example, the budget expenditures on items specified in Referendum J received 83% of district operating budgets on average, already well over the 65% that would be required by the new law, while according to Amendment 39's budget definitions only 60% of the budget was already spent in that year on the budget items specified by Amendment 39.\n\nAside from the average, however, individual school budget analyses show that at least some schools in the state failed to meet the 65% requirements set forth by each of the ballot proposals. 166 school districts would have fallen short by a total of $278 million according to the requirements of Amendment 39, while three districts would have fallen short for a total of approximately one million dollars under the requirements of Referendum J, if they had both been in effect for the 2004-2005 school year.\n\n", "id": "7728546", "categories": [], "title": "Colorado Referendum J"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728554", "text": "Gottlob Ernst Schulze\n\nGottlob Ernst Schulze (; 23 August 1761 – 14 January 1833) was a German philosopher, born in Heldrungen (modern-day Thuringia, Germany). He was the grandfather of the pioneering biochemist Ernst Schulze. \n\nSchulze was a professor at Wittenberg, Helmstedt, and Göttingen. His most influential book was \"Aenesidemus\" (1792), a skeptical polemic against Immanuel Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\" and Karl Leonhard Reinhold's \"Philosophy of the Elements\".\n\nIn Göttingen, he advised his student Arthur Schopenhauer to concentrate on the philosophies of Plato and Kant. This advice had a strong influence on Schopenhauer's philosophy. In the winter semester of 1810 and 1811, Schopenhauer studied both psychology and metaphysics under Schulze.\n\nSchulze died in Göttingen.\n\n", "id": "7728554", "categories": ["19th-century German philosophers", "1761 births", "1833 deaths", "German male writers", "People from Heldrungen"], "title": "Gottlob Ernst Schulze"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728556", "text": "Île Madame\n\nÎle Madame is an island in the River Charente estuary on the Atlantic coast of France joined to the mainland by a causeway. The island has an area of four square miles and is unpopulated.\n\nHundreds of Catholic priests were held prisoner on the island during anti-clerical persecution in 1794. A total of 254 died before the survivors were allowed to leave.\n\nThe priests who were held prisoner and those who died on the island are commemorated during a pilgrimage there each August.\n\n", "id": "7728556", "categories": ["Islands of Charente-Maritime", "River islands of France"], "title": "Île Madame"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728589", "text": "Stephens Media (newspapers)\n\nStephens Media LLC was a Las Vegas, Nevada, diversified media investment company. It owned stakes in the California Newspapers Partnership and the \"Northwest Arkansas Democrat Gazette\".\n\nThe company had been expanding its interactive Internet business, operating online sites for its newspapers and portal sites like LasVegas.com, which is licensed to Greenspun Media Group. The company is also a partner in the California Newspapers Partnership with MediaNews and Gannett. The company also formed Northwest Arkansas Newspapers LLC in November 2009, a joint venture with WEHCO Media Inc., in Arkansas.\n\nOn November 28, 2010, Stephens Media Iowa, LLC, a subsidiary of Stephens Media, acquired several newspapers, including the \"Ames Tribune\", \"Boone News-Republican\", \"Dallas County News\", \"Nevada Journal\", \"Ames About People & Advertiser\", \"Tri-County Times\", and \"Algona Upper Des Moines\" from Midlands Newspapers Inc., a subsidiary of the Omaha World-Herald Company. In August, 2011, the Algona Upper Des Moines was sold to Hallmark Media. \n\nIn February 2015, Stephens Media was purchased by GateHouse Media for $102.8 million. In December 2015, GateHouse sold the \"Las Vegas Review-Journal\", the Stephens group's largest paper, to casino magnate Sheldon Adelson for $140 million.\n\nThe company was formerly called Donrey Media Group, which was founded by Arkansas media mogul Donald W. Reynolds and based in Fort Smith, Arkansas. After Reynolds died in 1993 at the age of 86, the company was sold to the Stephens family of Arkansas, known for their Little Rock investment banking business Stephens Inc. Some of Donrey's properties were sold off, and the company moved its headquarters to Las Vegas, Nevada, home of its largest newspaper, the \"Las Vegas Review-Journal\". The company was renamed Stephens Media Group in 2002. In June 2006, the company became known as Stephens Media LLC. The company has no connection with Stephens Media Group, a radio broadcasting company in Tulsa, Oklahoma.\n\nIn 2010, Stephens Media contracted with the litigation firm Righthaven LLC, giving it the power to enforce the company's copyrights when online violators go beyond the bounds of fair use. More than 141 lawsuits have been filed in U.S. District Court in Las Vegas since mid-March.\n\nIn a column published in the RJ shortly after the lawsuits began, publisher Sherman Frederick, said the primary goal with the partnership with Righthaven was to deter theft of the company's copyrighted materials. He said if the company was successful, he hoped Righthaven would find other media clients. In late August, WEHCO Media, which owns the \"Arkansas Democrat-Gazette\" and the \"Chattanooga Times Free Press\", signed on with the firm. MediaNews Group has also used Righthaven to file a copyright infringement suit.\n\nThe aggressive enforcement of the Stephens Media copyrights by Righthaven was being closely watched by other publishers, as is the debate it has generated. Critics of the relatively new practice have coined it 'copyright trolling', and argue that the purpose of such enforcement is to make a profit. In the Poynter article, Stephens Media general counsel Mark Hinueber says the goal is to make sure the company's intellectual rights are protected. \"We were seeing our entire work product in some stories just being right-clicked and cut and pasted into blogs, where people were selling Google ads around them and making money.\" The \"Las Vegas Sun\" has been thoroughly documenting Righthaven's activities and the response. The \"Sun\"’s outside law firm, Lewis and Roca, is defending several of the Righthaven suits.\n\nTargets of the Righthaven lawsuits included bloggers, political forums, major political parties, and several of the newspaper's own sources including NORML, DailyPaul.com, Infowars, Free Republic, and others. On August 25, 2010, the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) announced that they will make efforts to assist Righthaven LLC defendants to the best of their ability.\n\nRighthaven's lawsuits came under increasing judicial scrutiny, which led to Righthaven being found in June 2011 to lack standing to sue for alleged infringement of copyrighted material to which it holds only a limited license, as such a license does not confer the right to sue for infringement. Sanctions against Righthaven and its attorney, Steven A. Gibson, of Nevada law firm Dickinson Wright, are currently being contemplated by one judge. Righthaven later had its assets seized to pay judgments levied against it in lawsuits it filed against those whom it said infringed on the copyrights of clients. As a result, copyrights which had been \"sold\" by Stephens to Righthaven were \"sold back\" to Stephens for $80,000 to pay legal fees.\n\nIn September 2009, Stephens Media and WEHCO Media Inc., owner of the \"Arkansas Democrat-Gazette\", announced plans to combine their newspaper operations in Northwest Arkansas and operate as a single company. The venture was approved in November 2009 by the U.S. Justice Department and a new Arkansas Limited Liability Company, Northwest Arkansas Newspapers LLC, was formed. Stephens Media sold its interest in the joint venture to WEHCO on May 5, 2016, which assumed control of all operations of the newspapers in the joint venture.\n\nNewspapers in the joint venture include:\n\n\nArkansas\n\nIowa\nNevada\n\nNorth Carolina\n\nOklahoma\n\nTexas\n\nTennessee\n\n", "id": "7728589", "categories": ["Publishing companies established in 1940", "Stephens Media", "Privately held companies based in the Las Vegas Valley", "Newspaper companies of the United States", "Companies based in Las Vegas", "Nevada media"], "title": "Stephens Media (newspapers)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728596", "text": "Henry Yesler\n\nHenry L. Yesler (December 2, 1810 – December 16, 1892) was an entrepreneur and a politician, regarded as a founder of the city of Seattle. Yesler served two non-consecutive terms as Mayor of Seattle, and was the city's wealthiest resident during his lifetime.\n\nYesler arrived in Seattle from Ohio in 1852 and built a steam-powered sawmill, which provided numerous jobs for those early settlers and Duwamish tribe members. The mill was located right on the Elliott Bay waterfront, at the foot of what is now known as Yesler Way and was then known as Mill Road or the \"Skid Road,\" so named for the practice of \"skidding\" greased logs down the steep grade from the ever-receding timber line to the mill. In running the mill, Yesler built the city's first water system in 1854. The system was made up of a series of open-air, V-shaped flumes perched on stilts that started atop First Hill and ran down past Yesler's residence and to the mill. Later on, after complaints of dirty water, Yesler developed a system made up of log pipes and iron buried beneath the ground. \nIn 1858, Yesler's wife Sarah joined him in Seattle, and the couple lived in a simple house across from the mill. \nYesler also served in public office, at various times as a county auditor, county commissioner, and mayor.\nOn June 6, 1889, the Great Seattle Fire destroyed the entire business district (which consisted mainly of wooden buildings), including Yesler's sawmill, Yesler's Hall, a theater on the corner of and 1st Avenue, and Yesler's Pavilion, a civic center on 1st and Cherry Street. They were never replaced. In 1892, Yesler erected the Pioneer Building on the same plot of land where his first home stood, now the heart of Seattle's Pioneer Square. Sarah Yesler had died in 1887, but Yesler built a large new mansion and shared his mansion with a younger female relative (some sources describe her as a maid), whom he married five months later.\nYesler died on December 16, 1892, at the age of 82. He is buried in Seattle's Lake View Cemetery. After his death, Yesler's mansion became the first home of the Seattle Public Library, and burned down on January 2, 1901. The King County Courthouse currently occupies the site.\n\nIn his informative and tongue-in-cheek book, \"Sons of the Profits\", columnist and Seattle historian William C. Speidel pointed out some of Yesler's negative aspects. On numerous occasions, Yesler had lawsuits filed against him. On other occasions, it was Yesler himself doing the suing. \"The City of Seattle made him a millionaire,\" wrote Speidel, \"yet he sued it...fought it...plundered it...and on two occasions he brought it to the brink of bankruptcy.\" Speidel also recounts how, according to courthouse records, Yesler owed John McLain, an old friend from Ohio, $30,000 for the loan that the latter set up for construction of the mill. Yesler would pay him $12,000 of it over time, and it wasn't until McLain sued him that he was able to collect on the rest.\nYesler and his wife Sarah were Spiritualists and believed in free love.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728596", "categories": ["American spiritualists", "1810 births", "County auditors in the United States", "County councilors in Washington (state)", "1892 deaths", "19th-century American politicians", "History of Seattle"], "title": "Henry Yesler"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728600", "text": "Tomin\n\nTOMIN SAJI is a film (director) maker, writer, actor and photographer. He had worked as an assistant director in short films and made his directional debut with the Malayalam short film \"Hollow Brick\" (2016). Then he had continued to make Malayalam short films such as \"Beyond the Hearts\", \"Thalamudi\" and \"Kandan\". The most recent short film which he had directed, \"Kandan\" (which was based on the real incident of killing of our madhu), was successful and was screened in many short film festivals. He is an up-and-coming member of the Malayalam short film and film industry.\n", "id": "7728600", "categories": ["Units of mass", "Spanish customary measurements"], "title": "Tomin"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728610", "text": "Egypt at the 1912 Summer Olympics\n\nThe Egyptian Olympic Committee considers the nation to have first competed in the Summer Olympic Games at the 1912 Summer Olympics in Stockholm, Sweden. According to the official report, the nation sent one fencer, Ahmed Hassanein, who competed in the individual foil and épée events. There is uncertainty, however, as to whether he competed, as the official report lists all entrants in fencing regardless of their actual participation, and no results are known for Hassanein.\n\nIn 1912 Egypt was \"de jure\" under the control of the Ottoman Empire, but had been \"de facto\" run by the British since 1882. At the 1896 Summer Olympics, an athlete by the name of Dionysios Kasdaglis competed in tennis and won silver medals in the singles and doubles tournaments. Kasdaglis is listed as Greek by the IOC for the singles, but in the doubles he and his Greek partner Demetrios Petrokokkinos are listed as a \"mixed team\". Kasdaglis had British citizenship, but lived in Egypt and was a member of Egyptian clubs, and thus he has been considered by some as an Egyptian Olympian. Two athletes, Arthur Marson and Eugenio Colombani, competed under the Egyptian flag at the 1906 Intercalated Games, which are no longer recognized as Olympic by the International Olympic Committee (IOC), but were considered as such by contemporary sources. The Egyptian Olympic Committee, founded in 1910, considers Egypt's first Olympic delegation to have been at the 1912 Summer Olympics, which is supported by that year's official report. There is uncertainty, however, as to whether the fencer they sent, Ahmed Hassanein, actually competed, as the official report lists all entrants in the fencing events regardless of their actual participation.\n\nAccording to the official report, Hassanein competed in both the individual foil and épée events. In the former he was part of Pool XIV, which included upcoming bronze medalist Richard Verderber of Austria, and it is recorded only that he did not advance to the quarterfinals. In the latter he was placed in Pool II, which included eventual Olympic champion Paul Anspach of Belgium, and again it is noted only that he did not make it out of the round. Hassanein would go on to compete in both disciplines at the 1920 Summer Olympics, and in épée in 1924, but never won a medal.\n", "id": "7728610", "categories": ["Nations at the 1912 Summer Olympics", "Egypt at the Summer Olympics by year"], "title": "Egypt at the 1912 Summer Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728615", "text": "United Nations Integrated Office in Burundi\n\nThe United Nations Integrated Office in Burundi (BINUB) was established by the United Nations Security Council to support the government of Burundi in its efforts towards long-term peace and stability and to replace the work of United Nations Operation in Burundi (ONUB). Its mandate was scheduled to begin on 1 January 2007 for an initial 12 months, and its creation and mission was as a result of recommendations in a report by the Secretary-General.\n\nThe previous UN mission in Burundi, ONUB, was created to facilitate the implementation of the peace agreements signed between the previous government and the CNDD-FDD rebel group. The CNDD-FDD's leader Pierre Nkurunziza went on to win the Burundian elections in 2005, and his party effectively controls the Burundian government.\n\nThe reasons for establishing a second mission in Burundi, following directly on the ONUB missions, was the ceasefire agreement reached between the new CNDD-FDD government and the last remaining rebel group Palipehutu-FNL. This ceasefire agreement was signed on 7 September 2006 in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, after mediation by South Africa in talks that began in May. Among the key points in the agreement were a complete cessation of hostilities, temporary immunity for FNL fighters and the demobilization of these troops and their subsequent integration into the armed forces of Burundi, in line with earlier peace agreements in this conflict that all stipulated power-sharing arrangements in the security sector.\n\nThe BINUB mission was created to facilitate the implementation of this ceasefire agreement, with the most important point of the mandate being the support of the implementation of the modalities of the agreement, assistance in the reform of the security sector and support of the reintegration of ex-combatants. The Burundian government also requested the BINUB to help in the establishment of rule of law, good governance and freedom of press and media.\n\nThe mandate of BINUB currently extends to the end of 2010.\n\nIt was replaced by the United Nations Office in Burundi (BNUB) on 1 January 2011.\n\n", "id": "7728615", "categories": ["Politics of Burundi", "Burundi and the United Nations", "Organizations established in 2001", "United Nations Security Council mandates"], "title": "United Nations Integrated Office in Burundi"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728622", "text": "Directorate-General for Trade\n\nThe Directorate-General for Trade (DG TRADE) is a Directorate-General of the European Commission. DG TRADE works on securing prosperity, solidarity and security in Europe and around the globe. It covers a wide area from manufactured goods to services, intellectual property and investment.\n\nUnder the authority of Cecilia Malmström, the European Commissioner for Trade, DG TRADE coordinates trade relations between the European Union (EU) and the rest of the world. As of 2015 Jean-Luc Demarty is the Director-General.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728622", "categories": ["Directorates-General in the European Commission"], "title": "Directorate-General for Trade"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728629", "text": "Bamburgh Dunes\n\nBamburgh Dunes are a region of coastal sand dunes with an area of over 40 hectares situated around the village of Bamburgh in Northumberland, England. The dunes, which stand in the shadow of the impressive Bamburgh Castle, have been a Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) since 1995 and are part of the North Northumberland Dunes Special Area of Conservation (SAC). The dunes have a rich diversity of flora and fauna and in places provide good examples of “climbing dunes” found where sand has been blown onto high ground adjacent to the beach.\n\nBamburgh Dunes vary from open sandy beaches, through low ridges dominated by marram grass, to more stable grass-covered dunes. These occur as a series of irregular parallel sand ridges and hummocks separated by hollows, which are seasonally wet. Some of the plant species include the pyramidal orchid, \"Centaurium\", sea sandwort and petalwort (which is on the List of endangered species in the British Isles) . The dunes are also rich in rare insect life, over 500 species have been identified including 15 rare species including a plant hopper (\"Dicranotropis divergens\") a grass-mining fly (\"Opomyza punctata\"), and a shore fly (\"Psilopa marginella\"). Birds attracted to the dunes include grasshopper warbler, sedge warbler, European stonechat, meadow pipit and reed bunting. In winter short-eared owl and water rail are also found.\n\nOver the years more vigorous invasive plant species and scrub have encroached, making the dune system too stabilised and threatening the uniqueness of Bamburgh Dunes, most rare plant species appreciate the unstable and shifting structure of sand dunes. In an effort to counteract this, Bamburgh Castle Estate, English Nature, DEFRA, Northumberland County Council and Bamburgh Parish Council have come up with a plan of management which has resulted in cattle being allowed to graze the dunes since 2000 to break up the dominant grass cover. A fence has been erected to contain the cattle within the dunes, access by people is encouraged within the fenced area with stiles and gates sited on the main paths.\nAn ancient Anglo-Saxon 7th century burial ground was unearthed in the dunes to the south east of Bamburgh Castle during an archaeological dig in 1998 by the Bamburgh Research Project. The burial ground, called the Bowl Hole, had been known to exist since 1816 when violent storms removed large amounts of dune sand and uncovered the site for a period. The BBC television programme “Meet the Ancestors” became involved during the dig and screened a programme about the finds in February 2001.\n\n", "id": "7728629", "categories": ["Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Northumberland", "Tourist attractions in Northumberland", "Dunes of England"], "title": "Bamburgh Dunes"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728641", "text": "Loop-switch sequence\n\nA loop-switch sequence (also known as the for-case paradigm or Anti-Duff's Device) is a programming antipattern where a clear set of steps is implemented as a switch-within-a-loop. The loop-switch sequence is a specific derivative of spaghetti code.\n\nIt is not necessarily an antipattern to use a switch statement within a loop—it is only considered incorrect when used to model a known sequence of steps. The most common example of the correct use of a switch within a loop is an inversion of control such as an event handler. In event handler loops, the sequence of events is not known at compile-time, so the repeated switch is both necessary and correct (see event-driven programming, event loop and event-driven finite state machine).\n\nThis is not a performance antipattern, though it may lead to an inconsequential performance penalty due to the lack of an unrolled loop. Rather, it is a clarity antipattern, as in any non-trivial example it is much more difficult to decipher the intent and actual function of the code than the more straightforward refactored solution.\n\nAn event-driven solution would implement a listener interface:\nBut without the listener, it becomes an example of the antipattern:\nAnd here is the refactored solution:\n", "id": "7728641", "categories": [], "title": "Loop-switch sequence"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728653", "text": "Nature's Valley\n\nNature's Valley is a holiday resort and small village on the Garden Route along the southern Cape coast of South Africa. Nature's Valley lies between the Salt River, the foothills of the Tsitsikamma Mountains, the Indian Ocean and the Groot River lagoon. Nature's Valley has a balmy climate and is surrounded by the de Vasselot Nature Reserve which is part of the Tsitsikamma Park, and in turn part of the Garden Route National Park.\n\nNature's Valley, and the surrounding coastline, was occupied by Old Stone Age or Paleolithic man from 1 million years ago. Paleolithic man lived in the area in caves and under overhangs, collecting food in the tidal zone and hunting for a rich variety of wildlife. Various glacial periods interrupted this coastal occupation. San hunter-gatherers lived in this area from about 10,000 years ago until they were displaced by Khoikhoi herders from the interior.\n\nFor a long time travel along the Garden Route parallel to the coastline was impossible, due to the extremely deep and precipitous river gorges blocking all east-west traffic. Charles Collier Michell reported in 1839: \"\"there is no practical way – not even a footpath, from Plettenberg Bay to the Tzitzikamma country\"\". Thomas Bain built a road from George to Knysna, the so-called \"Seven Passes Road\", which took from 1867 to 1883 to complete. Access to the coastal area which lay further east was possible only via the Langkloof valley, which lies immediately north of the Tsitsikamma Mountains. \n\nNature's Valley only became easily accessible after Thomas Bain completed the Grootrivier Pass in 1880. He and Captain Christopher Harison (later Conservator of Forests) first explored the route in 1868 to test its feasibility. Harison's interest in the road stemmed from his belief that it could be used to halt the runaway destruction of the forest started by Dutch East India Company woodcutters in 1777 and carried on by their descendants. At the time that Bain and Harison reconnoitred the route, Bain was supervising the construction of no fewer than six passes, so that 10 years would elapse before he could start work on the Groot River Pass. A hundred years later the demands of road transport would dictate the building of a freeway with enormous concrete bridges – a tribute to the skill of engineers, and bringing in its wake considerable collateral damage to the environment.\n\nAfter Bain's completion of the Groot River Pass, the Forestry Department proclaimed three lots in the Valley – one for its own use and the other two sold to private individuals. The first person to settle in the now accessible valley, and who acquired a 69-hectare lot from Telfer Anderson, was Hendrik Jacobus Hermanus Barnardo who had been a foreman at Bain's Groot River construction camp. Barnardo was an enigmatic character who went to extreme lengths to protect the trees of the area, but enthusiastically led the slaughter of wildlife throughout the region. Barnardo married three times and fathered 19 children. Another member of his family shot the last Tsitsikamma elephant in 1881.\n\nIn the face of continued pressure to sell a portion of his farm, Barnardo finally relented in 1941 and sold an area of 1.6963 morgen to a syndicate of ten buyers for the sum of £755. In 1943 Baron Ulrich Behr of Kurland bought the option to purchase the remainder of Barnardo's property from the Van Reenen family, who had acquired the option in the 1920s, but had never exercised it. Behr then went through all the steps necessary to have the land proclaimed for development. In 1953 the township was declared and formally named \"Nature's Valley\" by Behr, a name that had been used by the syndicate at the suggestion of Wide du Preez of \"The Crags\".\n\nA network of trails covers the surrounding hills and beaches. The lagoon offers sheltered water for sailing and canoeing, without powerboating and beach buggies. A walk along beaches and a rocky path leads to the Salt River Mouth after crossing Pebble Beach, a large area completely covered in sea-smoothed cobbles.\n\nEast of Nature's Valley is the Groot River Lagoon, which marks the end of the Otter Trail, starting at Storms River Mouth, 60 km further east. This 5-day trail is considered by many hikers to be the finest in South Africa, being strenuous, scenic and extremely varied. The route meanders along the coast through evergreen forest, past boulder-strewn beaches and frequently crossing tannin-stained streams. Huts are available for the hiker at the end of each day, but bookings have to be made well in advance.\n\nThe Brenton blue butterfly, \"Orachrysops niobe\", was first described from Knysna by Roland Trimen in 1858, and was not seen again until discovered in 1977 at Nature's Valley and shortly thereafter in 1979 at Brenton-on-Sea. The Nature's Valley population was assumed to be extinct when no more sightings were made after 1984. The cause of this decline was felt to be the absence of fynbos fires causing a shortage of the butterfly's foodplant \"Indigofera erecta\", and accordingly a controlled burn was carried out in April 2003, with a reintroduction of butterfly eggs in August 2005.\n\nIn 2000 researchers from the Albany Museum in Grahamstown discovered a number of aquatic insect species new to science in the Salt River, which lies at the western end of Nature's Valley. The isolated position of the river, a lack of fish and its acidic and unpolluted water are thought to have been factors in ensuring the undisturbed survival of these primitive forms. New housing developments within the catchment area of the Salt River may threaten the continued existence of these unique insects.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728653", "categories": [], "title": "Nature's Valley"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728654", "text": "The Greatest Hits (Juvenile album)\n\nThe Greatest Hits is a Greatest hits album by rapper Juvenile. It was released on October 19, 2004 through Cash Money Records.\n\n\n from \"400 Degreez\" (1998) \n", "id": "7728654", "categories": ["2004 greatest hits albums", "Albums produced by Mannie Fresh", "Juvenile (rapper) albums", "Cash Money Records compilation albums"], "title": "The Greatest Hits (Juvenile album)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728668", "text": "Arkaquah Trail\n\nThe Arkaquah Trail is a hiking trail that has been designated as a National Recreation Trail in Georgia. The trail is 5.5 miles (8.25 km) long (not including the trail from the parking area to the summit and back) and is located in the Chattahoochee National Forest in the Brasstown Ranger District. The trail is managed by the U.S. Forest Service.\n\nThe trail starts at Brasstown Bald and descends along the northern spur of ridge called Locust Log Ridge to Track Rock Gap. There are a number of scenic viewpoints along the Arkaquah Trail. The first five miles (8 km) of the trail are located within the Brasstown Wilderness and the trail ends at Track Rock, one of the best-known of the petroglyph sites in Georgia. There is parking at both ends of the trail.\n\n", "id": "7728668", "categories": ["Protected areas of Union County, Georgia", "Hiking trails in Georgia (U.S. state)", "Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest", "National Recreation Trails of the United States"], "title": "Arkaquah Trail"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728677", "text": "Marion High School\n\nMarion High School may refer to:\n\n\n", "id": "7728677", "categories": [], "title": "Marion High School"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728701", "text": "Parachute (The Pretty Things album)\n\nParachute, released in 1970, is the fifth studio album by the English rock band The Pretty Things, following \"S.F. Sorrow\" and preceding \"Freeway Madness\". It is their first album without guitarist Dick Taylor.\n\nReviews at the time of release were very positive, with \"Billboard\" calling it \"another top-flight album\" for the band. In 1975, \"Rolling Stone\" critic Steve Turner even wrote that it had been \"a \"Rolling Stone\" 'album of the year',\" though in fact \"Parachute\" did not place among the magazine's Albums of the Year for 1970 or 1971, and indeed was not mentioned in \"Rolling Stone\" until Stephen Holden called it an \"obscure underground classic\" in his review of \"Freeway Madness\".\n\nThe musicians involved were Phil May, Wally Waller, John Povey, Vic Unitt, Skip Alan.\n\nThe record was later packaged together with \"S.F. Sorrow\" as a double LP titled \"Real Pretty\". In Canada, this album was on Motown Records.\n\nSnapper Records released a 40th anniversary double CD in September 2010 which included acoustic reworkings of various tracks recorded in May 2010 by Wally Waller and Phil May.\n\nAll songs by Phil May and Wally Waller, except where noted.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728701", "categories": ["Albums recorded at Abbey Road Studios", "Albums produced by Norman Smith (record producer)", "Albums with cover art by Hipgnosis", "1970 albums", "Harvest Records albums", "The Pretty Things albums", "EMI Records albums"], "title": "Parachute (The Pretty Things album)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728720", "text": "Directorate-General for International Cooperation and Development\n\nThe Directorate-General for International Cooperation and Development is one of the departments of the European Commission. It operates under the authority of the European Commissioner for International Cooperation & Development, Neven Mimica.\n\nDirectorate General Development and Cooperation - EuropeAid was formed on 1 January 2011 following the merger of the \"EuropeAid Cooperation Office\" (AIDCO) with the \"Directorate General for Development and Relations with ACP States\" (DEV). AIDCO had been founded on 1 January 2001 with the mission of implementing the EU external aid programmes around the world. At that time, DG DEV and the \"Directorate General for External Relations\" (RELEX) were responsible for policy and programming. \n\nFollowing the creation of EuropeAid in 2011, Director-General Fokion Fotiadis was responsible for the overall realisation of the DG's mission, which consists in the programming and implementation of the European Commission's external aid instruments financed by the European Union budget and the European Development Funds. In November 2013, Fernando Frutuoso de Melo succeeded Fokion Fotiadis as Director-General of the Directorate General. \n\nEuropeAid focused on maximising the value and impact of aid funding by making sure support provided in a manner which complies with EU development objectives and the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals in a speedy and accountable fashion. Effective implementation and delivery of aid also helps the Commission and the EU as a whole to attain a higher profile on the world stage. The European Union is the world's largest aid donor.\n\nDG Development and Cooperation - EuropeAid was reformed into current form on 1 January 2015.\n\nDG International Cooperation and Development formulates the European Union's development policy abroad. Its mission is to help reduce and ultimately eradicate poverty in developing countries through the promotion of sustainable development, democracy, peace and security.\n\nIt works on policy formulation at a global and sectoral level. The main intervention areas covered are: Trade and regional integration, Environment and the sustainable management of natural resources, Infrastructure, communications and transport, Water and energy, Rural development, Governance, democracy and human rights, Peace and security, Human development, Social cohesion and employment. EU development action is based on the European Consensus on Development, which was endorsed on 20 December 2005 by EU Member States, the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission.\n\nWhen implementing projects, it takes account of EU policy strategies and long-term programmes for the delivery of aid. It translates policies into practical actions and develops new ways of delivering aid, such as budget support and through sectoral approaches. It also issues guidelines and makes evaluations of aid implementation. In addition, it is responsible for the proper management of funds and must use clear and transparent tendering and contracting procedures. The programming cycle and responsibilities have evolved with the creation of the European External Action Service EEAS. The EEAS has a key role in the programming of geographic instruments with EuropeAid and the EU Delegations. \n\nDirectorate-General is responsible for all the steps of an aid delivery project: after identifying needs, it carries out feasibility studies and prepares all the necessary financial decisions and controls. It then moves on to drawing up the required tendering, monitoring and evaluation procedures. EuropeAid often publishes these evaluations in its website, aiming to improve management, in particular by taking into account the lessons of past public actions and to reinforce capacity to account for, and to ensure, better transparency.\n\nThis institution is a decentralised organisation. Two out of three Commission staff members working on aid implementation are based in the field. That is why most of the preparatory and implementation work is done through the EU Delegations in the beneficiary countries. Directorate-General is made up of more than 43 units divided into nine directorates attached to the Director General.\n\nTo ensure coherence, complementarity and coordination in implementing external assistance programmes worldwide, DG DEVCO works in close collaboration with its various partners. The overall aim is to make external aid more effective. Civil society, international organisations and governments of member states of the European Union are all important actors in this field.\n\nDirectorate-General awards grants and contracts to implement projects or activities that relate to the European Union's external aid programmes. To ensure that EuropeAid's work to improve people's lives is recognised, a set of visibility guidelines have been produced. These guidelines ensure that aid projects acknowledge the funding support they receive from Commission budgets. They also help to raise the general profile of the EU across the world.\n\nDevelopment aid is financed directly by the EU budget (70%) as part of the financial instruments for external action and also by the European Development Fund (EDF) (30%). The EU's external action financing is divided into 'geographic' and 'thematic' instruments. The 'geographic' instruments provide aid through the Development Cooperation Instrument (DCI, €16.9 billion, 2007–2013), which must spend 95% of its budget on overseas development assistance (ODA), and from the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI), which contains some relevant programmes. The EDF (€22.7 bn, 2008–2013) is made up of voluntary contributions by EU Member States. There is currently a debate on whether to 'budgetise' the EDF. The perceived advantages include:\nThe perceived disadvantages are that:\n\n\n", "id": "7728720", "categories": ["Directorates-General in the European Commission", "International development agencies"], "title": "Directorate-General for International Cooperation and Development"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728761", "text": "Pranas Kūris\n\nPranas Kūris (born 20 August 1938 in Šeduva, Radviliškis district) is a Lithuanian lawyer. He is the first representative of Lithuania in the European Court of Justice and European Court of Human Rights.\n\nPranas Kūris has graduated the Law Faculty of Vilnius University in 1961 and has worked as a lecturer in the Department of the International and European Union Law of the Faculty.\n\nHe worked in the field of International public law. He was People's Minister of Justice of Lithuanian SSR from 1977 to 1990.\n\nPranas Kūris was the first ambassador of the newly independent Lithuania to Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands (1992–1994).\n\nPranas Kūris was appointed as a judge from Lithuania to the European Court of Justice in 2004. Pranas Kūris son, Egidijus Kūris has been the President of the Lithuanian Constitutional Court.\n\n\n", "id": "7728761", "categories": ["Vilnius University alumni", "European Court of Justice judges", "Ambassadors of Lithuania to Belgium", "Lithuanian judges of international courts and tribunals", "Ambassadors of Lithuania to the Netherlands", "Presidents of the Supreme Court of Lithuania", "International law scholars", "Lithuanian judges", "Lithuanian legal scholars", "Living people", "Ambassadors of Lithuania to Luxembourg", "1938 births", "Judges of the European Court of Human Rights", "Lithuanian communists", "People from Šeduva", "Vilnius University faculty", "Ministers of Justice of Lithuania"], "title": "Pranas Kūris"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728780", "text": "European Development Fund\n\nThe European Development Fund (EDF) is the main instrument for European Union (EU) aid for development cooperation in Africa, the Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP Group) countries and the Overseas Countries and Territories (OCT). Funding is provided by voluntary donations by EU member states. The EDF is subject to its own financial rules and procedures, and is managed by the European Commission (EC) and the European Investment Bank.\n\nArticles 131 and 136 of the 1957 Treaty of Rome provided for its creation with a view to granting technical and financial assistance to African countries that were still colonised at that time and with which certain countries had historical links.\n\nUsually lasting 6 years, each EDF lays out EU assistance to both individual countries and regions as a whole. The EU is on its 10th EDF from 2008-2013 with a budget of €22.7 billion. This represents about 30% of EU spending on development cooperation aid, with the remainder coming directly from the EU budget.\n\nThe budget of the 10th EDF can be broken down as follows:\n\nNegotiations for the 11th EDF would cover the period 2014-2020. This one-year extension compared to the 10th EDF allowed the end of the 11th EDF to coincide with the expiration of the Cotonou Partnership Agreement in 2020 and the EU budget period. The EDF has to date been funded outside the EU budget by the EU Member States on the basis of financial payments related to specific contribution shares, or “keys”. The Member State contributions keys are subject to negotiation. The EDF is the only EU policy instrument that is financed through a specific key that is different from the EU budget key, and which reflects the comparative interests of individual Member States.\n\nThere was a debate on whether to 'budgetise' the EDF. However, in the Communication ‘A budget for Europe 2020’, the European Commission underlined that it was not appropriate at present time to propose that the EDF be integrated into the EU budget. The perceived advantages include:\nThe perceived disadvantages are that:\n\nIn 2005, the EU and its Member States agreed to achieve a collective level of ODA of 0.7% of GNI by 2015 and an interim target of 0.56% by 2010, with differentiated intermediate targets for those EU Member States which had recently joined the Union. On the 23rd of May 2011, EU ministers responsible for development cooperation gathered to take stock of progress made and concluded that additional efforts would be needed to close an estimated gap of €50 billion to reach the self-imposed collective EU target of 0.7% by 2015.\n\nBy 2015, the EU had not reached 0.7% of GNI, though the commitment to this target was recently reaffirmed. The commitment held no deadline. Concord, the European confederation for relief and development, described the pledge as “vague and non-binding” and said 2020 should be the new deadline.\n\nThe EU's 'Agenda for Change'\n\nThe European Commission's development strategy – Agenda for Change – puts ‘inclusive and sustainable growth for human development’ at its centre. Adopted in 2011, it adopted 2 reforms designed to make its development policy both more strategic and more targeted. The Agenda for Change made new policies and rules for budget support. The three main elements of this Agenda were:\n\n(1) Targeting and concentrating aid\n\n(3) Other reforms for effectiveness - joint programming, common results framework, innovative financing (such as blending loans and grants), and Policy Coherence for Development\n\nProgramming the 11th European Development Fund\n\nThe EU is currently implementing its 11th European Development Fund for the period 2014-2020, with an aid budget of €30.5 billion for many of the ACP countries and Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs), covering both national and regional programmes. Effectively programming the European Development Fund (EDF) is a major political, policy and bureaucratic challenge, involving multiple stakeholders, namely the European Commission (EC), the European External Action Service (EEAS), 28 EU member states, the European Parliament, 74 governments from the Africa, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) group of states and domestic accountability actors.\n\nUnderstanding the magnitude of the 11th EDF programming challenge is critical for three reasons:\n\n(1) The 11th EDF unfolds in a radically changed global context for development cooperation, as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were agreed in September 2015.\n\n(2) The 11th EDF is the last before the Cotonou Partnership Agreement (CPA) between the EU and the countries of the ACP expires in 2020.\n\n(3) Programming and implementing the 11th EDF is a critical test of EU institutions that deal with external action, and it tests the ability of EU development policy to achieve high-impact aid, at a time when showing 'value for money' is a high political priority at a time when many European governments follow a policy of fiscal austerity.\n\nIndependent research by the European Centre for Development Policy Management (ECDPM), a think tank based in Maastricht (The Netherlands), shows that the EU has ensured the effective translation into practice of two key policy commitments of the 'Agenda for Change' - namely a more focused strategy for less developed countries (LDCs) and low-income countries (LICs), and the concentration of EU aid on a limited number of sectors and policy priorities. Their research found that the high degree of compliance was achieved \"through top-level support and tight control from headquarters\".\n\nWhile the principles of the 'Agenda for Change' appear to have been followed, ECDPM showed that in many countries initial programming proposals based on in-country consultations, managed by EU Delegations, were then superseded by the choices of EU headquarters in Brussels. Although the 11th EDF is closely aligned with national development plans, there is evidence that this top-down approach to programming has led to a significant erosion of key aid and development effectiveness principles, in particular country ownership.\n\nCritics\n\nThe European Development Fund has been criticized because they can not prove what was purchased with the tsunami relief money.\n\n\n", "id": "7728780", "categories": ["European Commission projects"], "title": "European Development Fund"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728812", "text": "Robert Morrison, 1st Baron Morrison\n\nRobert Craigmyle Morrison, 1st Baron Morrison (29 October 1881 – 25 December 1953) was a British Labour Co-operative politician.\n\nBorn in Aberdeen, he was the son of James Morrison. He originally worked as a schoolmaster in the Middlesex suburbs of North London. He became involved in the Labour and Co-Operative movements, and in 1914 was elected to Wood Green Urban District Council. In the same year war broke out, and he served as a private in the British Army from 1915 to 1919. In 1919 he returned to local politics when he was elected to Middlesex County Council.\n\nAt the 1922 general election, he was elected as Member of Parliament (MP) for Tottenham North. He lost his seat at the 1931 general election to the Conservative Edward Doran, but was re-elected at the 1935 general election. After the 1924 general election, he served as Parliamentary Private Secretary to the then Leader of the Opposition Ramsay MacDonald, continuing to serve as Parliamentary Private Secretary to the Prime Minister after MacDonald's elevation to the Premiership.\n\nOn 15 November 1945, shortly after he had been re-elected at the 1945 general election, he was ennobled as Baron Morrison, of Tottenham in the County of Middlesex. In 1946, Morrison was appointed as a member of the Anglo-American Committee of Inquiry seeking a policy to resolve the increasing conflict between Jews and Arabs in Palestine. The committee then unanimously recommended a binational state in Palestine.\n\nMorrison married Grace Glossop in 1910, and the couple had two sons. He died in a Tottenham Hospital on Christmas Day 1953, aged 72. His eldest son, Dennis Morrison, succeeded to his title.\n\n", "id": "7728812", "categories": ["UK MPs 1922–23", "UK MPs 1924–29", "Labour Co-operative MPs for English constituencies", "UK MPs 1945–50", "Barons in the Peerage of the United Kingdom", "1953 deaths", "UK MPs 1929–31", "UK MPs 1923–24", "UK MPs 1935–45", "Labour Party (UK) hereditary peers", "1881 births"], "title": "Robert Morrison, 1st Baron Morrison"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728815", "text": "United Arab Republic at the 1960 Summer Olympics\n\nEgypt and Syria, as the United Arab Republic, competed at the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, Italy. Syria was a constituent of the United Arab Republic in 1960, but almost all 74 competitors for the Olympic team were from Egypt. 74 competitors, all men, took part in 34 events in 12 sports.\n\nAvadis Nazarkoukian from Damascus (Damas) was a member of the United Arab Republic (RAU) team at the 1960 Olympics in Rome (Italy), but he did not compete. There were 80 athletes, 9 of whom did not compete.\n\nSix fencers represented the United Arab Republic in 1960.\n\n\n\nUnited Arab Republic had nine male rowers participate in one out of seven rowing events in 1960.\n\n\nThree shooters represented the United Arab Republic in 1960.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728815", "categories": ["1960 in Egyptian sport", "Syria at the Summer Olympics by year", "Nations at the 1960 Summer Olympics", "Egypt at the Summer Olympics by year", "1960 in Syria", "United Arab Republic"], "title": "United Arab Republic at the 1960 Summer Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728830", "text": "Egypt at the 1964 Summer Olympics\n\nEgypt, as the United Arab Republic, competed at the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, Japan. 73 competitors, all men, took part in 35 events in 9 sports.\n\nFive fencers, all men, represented Egypt in 1964.\n\n\n\nSix shooters represented Egypt in 1964.\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728830", "categories": ["Nations at the 1964 Summer Olympics", "1964 in Egyptian sport", "Egypt at the Summer Olympics by year"], "title": "Egypt at the 1964 Summer Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728845", "text": "Egypt at the 1968 Summer Olympics\n\nEgypt, as the United Arab Republic, competed at the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, Mexico. 30 competitors, all men, took part in 18 events in 7 sports.\n\nFour fencers, all men, represented Egypt in 1968.\n\n\n\n\nTwo shooters represented Egypt in 1968.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728845", "categories": ["1968 in Egyptian sport", "Nations at the 1968 Summer Olympics", "Egypt at the Summer Olympics by year"], "title": "Egypt at the 1968 Summer Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728868", "text": "Jean Giral\n\nJean Antoine Giral (1700–1787) was an 18th-century French architect from Montpellier. He designed a number of buildings and structures in this city.\n\n", "id": "7728868", "categories": ["18th-century French architects", "1787 deaths", "People from Montpellier", "1700 births"], "title": "Jean Giral"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728880", "text": "Mission Man Band\n\nMission: Man Band (also known as \"SureShot\", \"Totally Boyband\" and \"Band of Men\") is an American reality series that first aired on VH1 on August 6, 2007.\n\nThe show is based on a format produced by MTV UK (Totally Boyband), in which a boy band is formed with various members of successful pop acts from the past. The show follows the production, recording, performance and behind-the-scenes action involved in the run-up to the launch of their first single as a new group.\n\nThe band, which calls itself Sureshot, consists of four members:\n\nThe band lived together for three weeks in Kirkpatrick's home in Orlando, Florida, and collectively wrote and produced songs with the help of professionals from the music industry, multi-Grammy winner and nominee, music producer Bryan Michael Cox, music manager Katie McNeil and vocal coach Gerry Williams as cameras followed their every move. On January 23, 2007, the band performed at halftime of an Orlando Magic basketball game, where they ended up being booed from the arena after their performance. The performance was filmed by VH1. On January 30, the band performed at Mansion in Miami, Florida, also filmed by VH1. Shooting for the show took place between January 15 and February 2, 2007.\n\nThe show is produced by Tijuana Entertainment, the same producing team behind \"Breaking Bonaduce\" and \"Shooting Sizemore\".\n\n\n", "id": "7728880", "categories": ["2008 American television series endings", "2007 American television series debuts", "2000s American reality television series", "VH1 television series"], "title": "Mission Man Band"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728914", "text": "New York Eye and Ear Control\n\nNew York Eye and Ear Control is an album of group improvisations recorded by an augmented version of Albert Ayler's group to provide the soundtrack for Michael Snow's 1964 film of the same name.\n\nCritics have compared the album with the key free jazz recordings: Ornette Coleman's earlier \"\" and John Coltrane's subsequent \"Ascension\". John Litweiler regards it favourably in comparison because of its \"free motion of tempo (often slow, usually fast); of ensemble density (players enter and depart at will); of linear movement\". Ekkehard Jost places it in the same company and comments on \"extraordinarily intensive give-and-take by the musicians\" and \"a breadth of variation and differentiation on all musical levels\".\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728914", "categories": ["Albert Ayler albums", "ESP-Disk albums", "Free jazz albums", "1965 albums"], "title": "New York Eye and Ear Control"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728938", "text": "Klan (TV series)\n\nKlan (, English: \"Clan\") is a Polish soap opera that premiered on September 22, 1997 on the public TVP1 channel. With 21 seasons and over 3,300 episodes, the show has been the longest-running Polish TV series. It airs from Monday to Thursday on TVP1 at 6.00 p.m.\n\n\"Klan\" revolves around the fates of the multi-generation Lubicz family from Warsaw.\n\nDuring its early seasons \"Klan\" was the most popular television series in Poland. It won numerous awards for the best soap opera and best actors.\n\n\n Marian Lubicz\n\n", "id": "7728938", "categories": ["1997 Polish television series debuts", "2000s Polish television series", "2010s Polish television series", "1990s Polish television series", "Television shows set in Warsaw", "Polish television soap operas"], "title": "Klan (TV series)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728939", "text": "Track Rock\n\nTrack Rock is located in the Track Rock Gap Archaeological Area (9Un367) in the Brasstown Ranger District of the Chattahoochee National Forest in Georgia. This area contains preserved petroglyphs of ancient Native American origin that resemble animal and bird tracks, crosses, circles and human footprints. Track Rock is explained by the Georgia Historical Marker placed there in 1988:\nThis area is one of the best-known of the petroglyph, or marked stone, sites in Georgia. The six table-sized soapstone boulders contain hundreds of symbols carved or pecked into their surface. Archaeologists have speculated dates for the figures from the Archaic Period (8,000 to 1,000 B.C.) to the Cherokee Indians who lived here until the 19th Century. No one knows the exact meaning of the symbols or glyphs which represent animals, birds, tracks and geometric figures. The earliest written account (1834) was by Dr. Matthew Stephenson, who was director of the U.S. Branch Mint in Dahlonega. One of the favorite stories about Track Rock Gap was recorded by ethnographer James Mooney who gathered Cherokee stories. The Cherokee called this site \"Datsu'nalasgun'ylu\" (where there are tracks) and \"Degayelun'ha\" (the printed or branded place). Cherokee stories include an explanation that hunters paused in the gap and amused themselves by carving the glyphs: the marks were made in a great hunt when the animals were driven through the gap, and that the tracks were made when the animals were leaving the great canoe after a flood almost destroyed the world and while the earth and rocks were soft.\nIn 1867, conservationist John Muir traveled nearby and met a mountaineer who said, \"It is called Track Gap ... from the great number of tracks in the rocks – bird tracks, bar tracks, hoss tracks, men tracks, all in the solid rock as if it had been mud.\" \n\nThere is a gravel parking lot at Track Rock and Track Rock is also accessible via the Arkaquah Trail. Track Rock Gap Archaeological Area is considered for the National Register of Historic Places, reference number 76002336, but it is still pending. \n\n", "id": "7728939", "categories": ["Protected areas of Union County, Georgia", "Archaeological sites in Georgia (U.S. state)", "Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest", "Landmarks in Georgia (U.S. state)"], "title": "Track Rock"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728950", "text": "Baron de Sigognac\n\nBaron de Sigognac is an Armagnac brand produced by the Domaine de Bordeneuve company.\n\n\n", "id": "7728950", "categories": ["Brandies"], "title": "Baron de Sigognac"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728954", "text": "William A. Henry III\n\nWilliam Alan Henry III (1950–1994) was an American cultural critic and author.\n\nHenry lived in North Plainfield, New Jersey as a young man. He graduated from Yale in 1971 and began his career in journalism in Boston, writing for the \"Boston Globe\". His coverage of school desegregation in Boston won a Pulitzer Prize in 1975. He also wrote on the arts for the \"Globe\", winning a second Pulitzer for his television criticism in 1980.\n\nIn the 1980s he worked as an arts critic for \"Time\" magazine, while pursuing his interests in cultural criticism and in American politics. Among his articles for \"Time\" was a story critical of the Hollywood trade newspapers in their cozy relationship in an industry town. In 1984, he wrote \"Visions of America\", an account of the American presidential campaign of that year. His 1990 video documentary of Bob Fosse, \"Steam Heat\", won an Emmy. He also wrote a 1992 biography of Jackie Gleason, \"The Great One\".\n\nHis final book was \"In Defense of Elitism\", a work of social and cultural criticism that argued that societies and cultures might be ranked on a spectrum ranging from 'egalitarianism' to 'elitism', and that the contemporary United States had moved too far away from the latter; a view he defended with reference to college education, multiculturalism, and other topics. He died of a heart attack on June 28, 1994 while the book was coming to press.\n\n", "id": "7728954", "categories": ["1994 deaths", "1950 births", "Pulitzer Prize for Criticism winners", "American television critics", "Time (magazine) people"], "title": "William A. Henry III"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728955", "text": "Wat Mahathat Yuwaratrangsarit\n\nWat Mahathat Yuwaratrangsarit ( (Pronunciation)) is a Buddhist temple in Bangkok, Thailand. It is one of the 10 royal temples of the highest class () in Bangkok.\n\nBuilt during Ayutthaya period, the temple was then known as Wat Salak. Soon after Bangkok was established as the capital of Siam, the temple became strategically situated between the newly built Grand Palace and Front Palace (residence of the vice-king). As a result, the temple was used for royal ceremonies and funerals.\n\nThroughout the past two centuries, the temple has been renovated and elevated in status by many Thai kings and royalties. It became the Wat Mahathat of Bangkok in 1803 and was given its current name in 1996. The temple is also home to Vipassana Meditation centre.\n\nMahachulalongkornrajavidyalaya University, Thailand's oldest higher education institute for Buddhist monks, is on the temple grounds. This is one of the most important universities in Thailand, split into faculty of human sciences, social sciences, an international programme, and a graduate college. The first class was admitted in 1889 and by 1997, both universities became public universities.\n\n\n", "id": "7728955", "categories": ["Phra Nakhon District", "Buddhist temples in Bangkok", "Thai Theravada Buddhist temples and monasteries"], "title": "Wat Mahathat Yuwaratrangsarit"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728975", "text": "Felixstowe F.2\n\nThe Felixstowe F.2 was a 1917 British flying boat class designed and developed by Lieutenant Commander John Cyril Porte RN at the naval air station, Felixstowe during the First World War adapting a larger version of his superior Felixstowe F.1 hull design married with the larger Curtiss H-12 flying boat. The Felixstowe hull had superior water contacting attributes and became a key base technology in most seaplane designs thereafter.\n\nBefore the war Porte had worked with American aircraft designer Glenn Curtiss on a flying boat, \"America\" in which they intended to cross the Atlantic in order to win the £10,000 prize offered by the British \"Daily Mail\" newspaper for the first aircraft to cross the Atlantic. Following the outbreak of war in Europe, Porte returned to England and rejoined the Royal Navy, eventually becoming commander of the naval air station at Felixstowe where he recommended the purchase from Curtiss of an improved version of the \"America\" flying boat on which he had worked, the Curtiss H-4 type, resulting in the RNAS receiving two prototype \"Americas\" and 62 H-4s.\n\nThe Curtiss H-4 was found to have a number of problems, being both underpowered and having a hull too weak for sustained operations and having poor handling characteristics when afloat or taking off. One flying boat pilot, Major Theodore Douglas Hallam, wrote that they were \"comic machines, weighing well under two tons; with two comic engines giving, when they functioned, 180 horsepower; and comic control, being nose heavy with engines on and tail heavy in a glide.\"\n\nTo try to resolve the H-4's hydrodynamic issues, in 1915 Porte carried out a series of experiments on four H-4s fitted with a variety of modified hulls, using the results of these tests to design a new hull which was fitted to the wings and tail of an H-4, serial number \"3580\", with a pair of 150 hp (112 kW) Hispano-Suiza 8 engines as the Felixstowe F.1. Rather than the lightweight boat-type structure of the Curtiss boats, the F.1's hull was based around a sturdy wooden box-girder similar to that used in contemporary landplanes, to which were attached a single-step planing bottom and side sponsons. Once modified by the fitting of a further two steps, the new hull proved to give much better take off and landing characteristics and was much more seaworthy.\n\nPorte then designed a similar hull, for the larger Curtiss H-12 flying boat, which while larger and more capable than the H-4s, shared failings of a weak hull and poor water handling. The combination of the new Porte II hull, this time fitted with two steps, with the wings of the H-12, a new tail and powered by two Rolls-Royce Eagle engines was named the Felixstowe F.2; its first flight was in July 1916, proving greatly superior to the Curtiss on which it was based. The F.2 entered production as the Felixstowe F.2A, being used as a patrol aircraft, with about 100 being completed by the end of World War I. Another seventy were built, and these were followed by two F.2C which were built at Felixstowe.\n\nIn February 1917, the first prototype of the Felixstowe F.3 was flown. This was larger and heavier than the F.2, giving it greater range and heavier bomb load, but poorer agility. Approximately 100 Felixstowe F.3s were produced before the end of the war.\n\nThe Felixstowe F.5 was intended to combine the good qualities of the F.2 and F.3, with the prototype first flying in May 1918. The prototype showed superior qualities to its predecessors but the production version was modified to make extensive use of components from the F.3, in order to ease production, giving lower performance than either the F.2A or F.3.\n\nThe Felixstowe F.2A was used as a patrol aircraft over the North Sea until the end of the war. Its excellent performance and maneuverability made it an effective and popular type, often fighting enemy patrol and fighter aircraft, as well as hunting U-boats and Zeppelins. The larger F.3, which was less popular with its crews than the more maneuverable F.2A, served in the Mediterranean and the North Sea.\n\nThe F.5 did not enter service until after the end of World War I, but replaced the earlier Felixstowe boats (together with Curtiss flying boats) to serve as the RAF's standard flying boat until being replaced by the Supermarine Southampton in 1925.\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7728975", "categories": ["1910s British patrol aircraft", "Flying boats", "Biplanes", "Aircraft first flown in 1916", "Felixstowe aircraft"], "title": "Felixstowe F.2"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728997", "text": "Point Roberts Airpark\n\nPoint Roberts Airpark is a single-grass-runway airport located in the town of Point Roberts, Washington. The airport, along with the marina, provide the only access to the rest of Washington state without first having to pass through British Columbia.\n\nIn 2000, a new five-plane hangar was built. It also features several couches and serves as a makeshift waiting room.\n\nPoint Roberts Airpark was created by Ray Young. He was a cartoonist at Buena Vista Studios who had a lifelong interest in flying. Ray moved to the Pacific Northwest in 1967 and purchased land in Point Roberts, developing it into an air strip he called Ray Young Field. He moved to Point Roberts with his wife, Uvon, in 1972. Later, he bought more land and extended the runway to its current length. Ray died in 1985; wife Uvon closed the runway and put the land up for sale in 1990. In 1996, she sold it to Robin Lamb, a retired Air Canada captain with 22,000-plus hours total flight time.\n\nIn the 1996-1998 period, using a 1955 Galion grader and a 1956 International TD-91 bulldozer, the airstrip was made usable again. The bulldozer cleared the trees, the grader put a crown on the runway and cleared the of the parking/air park area.\n\nIn November 1998, the runway was seeded with a low-maintenance turf. In the intervening years, except for mowing, the runway has needed no further maintenance and is used year-round.\n\nLamb died in 2012, and surviving family members named Romi Singh, a local pilot and airport consultant, as manager. Plans for the future include hangar homes and more hangar space. A GPS approach and customs clearance are being worked on.\n\n", "id": "7728997", "categories": ["Transportation buildings and structures in Whatcom County, Washington", "Airports in Washington (state)"], "title": "Point Roberts Airpark"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729000", "text": "Avraham Yehoshua Heshel\n\nAvraham Yehoshua Heshel of Apt, popularly known as the Apter Rebbe or Apter Rov, was born in Żmigród, Poland in 1748 and died in Mezhbizh, Russian Empire (now Ukraine) in 1825.\n\nA scion of famous rabbinic families, on both his father's and his mother's side (his family can be traced back to Maharam Padua and Saul Wahl), Avraham Yehoshua Heshel showed great promise even at an early age. Acquiring fame as a talmudic scholar, he studied under Rabbi Elimelech of Lizhensk and Rabbi Yechiel Michl of Zlotchov. Becoming one of the foremost spokesmen of the growing Chasidic movement in Poland, he began his career as Rabbi of Kolbuszowa. In 1800 he accepted the post of Rabbi of Apt, or Opatów. Although he held many other rabbinic positions, to the chasidim he remained always the Apter Rov. In 1808 he was chosen as Rabbi of Iaşi, Moldavia. In the wake of communal strife there he was forced to leave his post and settled in Mezhbizh, the home of the Baal Shem Tov and the cradle of Hasidism, where he devoted himself completely to the study and dissemination of Chasidism.\n\nIt was during this period in his life, in Mezhbizh, that he gained the veneration of thousands of followers, among whom were a number of the prominent rabbis of the age. His outstanding character trait was his strongly expressed love of the Jewish people, which earned him the title of \"Oheiv Yisrael\", \"Lover of Israel\". \"Oheiv Yisrael\" became the title of the published collection of his thoughts arranged according to the weekly Torah portions. The work abounds with lofty kabbalistic insights and interpretations. It is one of the basic chasidic texts, and bespeaks the Apter Rov's passionate love of his fellow Jews. The Apter Rov is one of the most notable and beloved luminaries in the hasidic firmament.\n\nOn his deathbed, crying bitterly over the long exile, he said: \"Before his demise Rabbi Levi Yitzchak of Berdichev promised that upon entering the World-to-Come he would not rest or sit until Mashiach would come. But they diverted his attention by teaching him lofty and mystical concepts, until he forgot his pledge—but I assure you, I will not forget.\"\n\nHe was buried in Mezhbizh, near the Baal Shem Tov. An ornate stone ohel marks his grave in the old Jewish cemetery. According to one hasidic legend, angels subsequently carried his body and buried him in the Holy Land, and in the Jewish Cemetery in Tiberias there is a stone marking his supposed grave.\n\nRabbi Avraham Yehoshua Heshel of Apt was the founder of the Mezhbizh/Zinkover rabbinic dynasty. In honor of the dynasty's founder, his descendants adopted the family name Heshel.\n\n", "id": "7729000", "categories": ["Hasidic rebbes", "1748 births", "1825 deaths", "People from Jasło County", "Hasidic rabbis in Europe"], "title": "Avraham Yehoshua Heshel"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729004", "text": "Gems &amp; Gemology\n\nGems & Gemology is a quarterly scientific journal published by the Gemological Institute of America. Each issue is devoted to research on diamonds, gemstones, and pearls. Topics include geographic sources, imitations and synthetics, treatments, and identification techniques. Established in January 1934, \"Gems & Gemology\" is geared toward jewelry professionals and gemologists.\n\nIssues contain research articles, updates from the GIA Laboratory and international gemology news. \"Gems & Gemology\" is abstracted and indexed by the Science Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2016 impact factor is 0.793, ranking it 24th out of 29 journals in the category \"Mineralogy\".\n", "id": "7729004", "categories": ["Gemology", "Publications established in 1934", "Geology journals", "Quarterly journals", "Mineralogy"], "title": "Gems &amp; Gemology"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729010", "text": "McLafferty rearrangement\n\nThe McLafferty rearrangement is a reaction observed in mass spectrometry during the fragmentation or dissociation of organic molecules. It is sometimes found that a molecule containing a keto-group undergoes β-cleavage, with the gain of the γ-hydrogen atom, as first reported by Nicholson working in the Division of Chemical Physics at the CSIRO in Australia. This rearrangement may take place by a radical or ionic mechanism.\n\nA description of the reaction was later published by the American chemist Fred McLafferty in 1959 leading to his name being associated with the process.\n\n\n", "id": "7729010", "categories": ["Tandem mass spectrometry", "Rearrangement reactions"], "title": "McLafferty rearrangement"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729029", "text": "Tottenham North (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nTottenham North was a parliamentary constituency centred on the Municipal Borough of Tottenham, in North London. It returned one Member of Parliament to the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe constituency was created for the 1918 general election, and abolished for the 1950 general election.\n\nThe Urban District of Tottenham wards of Lower, Middle, and West Green.\n\nGeneral Election 1939/40\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the Autumn of 1939, the following candidates had been selected; \n", "id": "7729029", "categories": ["Parliamentary constituencies in London (historic)", "United Kingdom Parliamentary constituencies disestablished in 1950", "United Kingdom Parliamentary constituencies established in 1918", "Politics of the London Borough of Haringey"], "title": "Tottenham North (UK Parliament constituency)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729035", "text": "List of ship commissionings in 1974\n\nThe list of ship commissionings in 1974 includes a chronological list of all ships commissioned in 1974.\n", "id": "7729035", "categories": ["Lists of ship commissionings"], "title": "List of ship commissionings in 1974"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729044", "text": "Darrell Reid\n\nDarrell Reid (born June 20, 1982) is a former American football linebacker. He was signed by the Indianapolis Colts as an undrafted free agent in 2005 and was a part of their Super Bowl XLI winning team against the Chicago Bears. He played college football at Minnesota.\n\nReid played college football for the Minnesota Golden Gophers from 2000-2004, where he was a four-year starter. He arrived at Minnesota as a linebacker, but was switched to defensive tackle in 2001. During his junior season, he led the team with 5.5 sacks. Reid switched to defensive end in 2004 and again led Minnesota in sacks with 7.5. This effort gained him a spot on the 2004 All-Big Ten Second Team.\n\nReid was signed as an undrafted free agent by the Colts, and spent time at the defensive tackle. He filled in as a fullback in goal line situations, and has played special teams.\n\nReid won Super Bowl XLI with the Colts in 2007.\n\nOn February 28, 2009, Reid signed a three-year, $10 million contract with the Denver Broncos. The deal includes a $1.3 million signing bonus and Reid could earn an additional $2.8 million through sack and playing-time incentives.\n\nThe mission of Darrell Reid's Footz Foundation is to educate, empower and inspire youth to believe and achieve, promoting future success through life's challenges. The foundation partners with a variety of programs that provide opportunities for leadership development and academic achievement, thereby enabling youth to positively impact their family, school and community. \nThe Footz Foundation holds several annual events for the next generation and also holds youth football camps, which also strive to teach life lessons. \"I am privileged enough to have made it to the NFL. I see it as my responsibility and a blessing to be able to pay it forward. I love to help these kids out and see the smiles on their faces. There is nothing better.\" says Reid.\n\n'Darrell Reid's Food Fest 2009'\nDarrell Reid (Line Backer #95 Denver Broncos) and his charity the Footz Foundation gave traditional Thanksgiving food, including Turkeys, to 20 less fortunate Denver area families for Thanksgiving in 2009. The 3- 10 member families received additional food to help them make it through the holiday season without going hungry. The families were members of Boys & Girls Clubs of Metro Denver, Wilfley Branch.\nDarrell will also spoke to the kids about the importance of not giving up, both in life and on themselves. A natural leader on and off the field, he also took pictures and signed autographs.\n\nDarrell believes in this cause and wanted to make it a special night for these kids, many of whom have had traumatic experiences and have been separated from loved ones. Now embarking on a very tough journey to start over, with some very unstable roads at times, the kids were able to draw strength and confidence from their time with Darrell. He is not just a figurehead in whatever he does, he is a participant and a role model. He leads by example and rolls up his sleeves and gets involved. Darrell wants to provide a \"bright spot\" for the kids in the center. He wants them to know that there is always a reason to hope and believe, and to never give up. “Sometimes just bringing a smile to a child's face, and hearing laughter is gift enough - especially if it is allowing their minds to wander away from their troubles, even for a moment,” says Darrell. \n\n", "id": "7729044", "categories": ["1982 births", "American football outside linebackers", "African-American players of American football", "American football defensive tackles", "Living people", "Indianapolis Colts players", "American football defensive ends", "Denver Broncos players", "Minnesota Golden Gophers football players", "People from Freehold Borough, New Jersey"], "title": "Darrell Reid"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729057", "text": "Pal Recording Studio\n\nPal Recording Studio (1957–1964) was an independent recording studio that operated in Cucamonga, California (now known as Rancho Cucamonga.) The studio was started by engineer/innovator Paul Buff. The studio is known for its instrumental Surf music recordings such as \"Wipe Out\" and the original demo recording of \"Pipeline\". The first location was at 8020 North Archibald Avenue. Later the studio later moved down the street to 8040.\n\nPal was also the training ground for a young Frank Zappa who worked at the studio starting in 1961. Zappa learned basic recording techniques at Pal. He recorded his first rock n' roll record, \"Breaktime\", by The Masters, which consisted of himself, Paul Buff, and Ronnie Williams. In 1964, Zappa bought the studio and renamed it Studio Z. Zappa lived at the studio building for a few months before it was closed in 1965. The building had to be torn down in order to widen North Archibald Avenue. \n\nZappa made many other recordings at the studio. Some were released by small Los Angeles record companies, such as Original Sound. Other recordings were kept in his vault and released on albums such as \"Lumpy Gravy\" (1968), \"Mystery Disc\" (1985), \"The Lost Episodes\" (1996), and \"Cucamonga\" (1998).\n\nPaul Buff engineered the original demo recording of \"Pipeline\" by The Chantays and \"Wipe Out\" by The Surfaris using his unique custom built recording machine, which recorded 5 tracks on 1/2 inch recording tape. Buff went on to invent the Kepex, an acronym for KEyable Program EXpander (the opposite of an audio compressor). Paul Buff's Alison Research studio products became common on pop recordings (Alan Parsons would use a Kepexed drum sound to create the 'heartbeat' heard on Pink Floyd's \"The Dark Side of the Moon\".)\n\nIn 2012, Crossfire Productions (in partnership with Buff) released a 5-CDr collection containing 156 of Buff's PAL recordings entitled 'Paul Buff Presents: Highlights From The Pal And Original Sound Studio Archives'. The collection featured 58 Zappa-involved recordings including an early version of Why Don't You Do Me Right? (which later appeared in 1967 as the A-side of a Mothers Of Invention single) and the previously unreleased Zappa novelty song, \"My Masked Grandma\". \n\nOther notable musicians/bands that recorded at Pal Recording Studio:\n\n\nNotable songs:\n\n\n", "id": "7729057", "categories": ["Frank Zappa"], "title": "Pal Recording Studio"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729061", "text": "F2c\n\nf2c is a program to convert Fortran 77 to C code, developed at Bell Laboratories. The standalone f2c program was based on the core of the first complete Fortran 77 compiler to be implemented, the \"f77\" program by Feldman and Weinberger. Because the f77 compiler was itself written in C and relied on a C compiler back end to complete its final compilation step, it and its derivatives like f2c were much more portable than compilers generating machine code directly.\n\nThe f2c program was released as free software and subsequently became one of the most common means to compile Fortran code on many systems where native Fortran compilers were unavailable or expensive. Several large Fortran libraries, such as LAPACK, were made available as C libraries via conversion with f2c. The f2c program also influenced the development of the GNU g77 compiler, which uses a modified version of the f2c runtime libraries.\n\n\n", "id": "7729061", "categories": ["Fortran compilers", "Free compilers and interpreters", "Compilers", "C (programming language)", "Source-to-source compilers"], "title": "F2c"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729073", "text": "Ohio State Route 372\n\nState Route 372 (SR 372) is a very short, two-lane east–west state highway in the southern part of the U.S. state of Ohio. The western terminus of this spur route is at a T-intersection with the concurrency of U.S. Route 23 (US 23) and SR 104 about north of Waverly. Its eastern terminus is just to the east of that point at the boundary of Scioto Trail State Forest. Continuing east of that point is Stoney Creek Road, which traverses through the state forest in the direction of the Scioto River. From its inception in the middle of the 1930s, the primary function of SR 372 has been to provide access to the state forest from the state highway system.\n\nThe entirety of SR 372 is located within Franklin Township in rural southern Ross County. Beginning at a T-intersection with the US 23/SR 104 concurrency, SR 372 travels easterly into a series of curves in the shape of an \"S\", taking the route to the north and then bending to the southeast. As it passes amidst heavily wooded terrain with some houses alongside the roadway, SR 372 travels past an intersection with North Ridge Road, then abruptly comes to an end as it crosses the western boundary of Scioto Trail State Forest. The roadway continues eastward from this point as Stoney Creek Road.\n\nThe Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) regularly does surveys to determine the amount of traffic that utilizes its highway system. Commonly, the volumes measured in these surveys are expressed in terms average annual daily traffic (AADT), or the amount of traffic volume on a given segment of a highway on any average day of the year. In 2010, ODOT determined that an average of 340 passenger vehicles per day and 20 commercial vehicles per day used SR 372. This state route is not a part of the National Highway System, a network of roadways identified as being most important for the economy, mobility and defense of the nation.\n\nThe SR 372 designation was established in 1934. Throughout its entire history, the highway has served to provide a connection to Scioto Trail State Forest from US 23. When it was first designated, all of SR 372 was gravel–surfaced. The state route was paved by 1958.\n", "id": "7729073", "categories": ["State highways in Ohio", "Transportation in Ross County, Ohio"], "title": "Ohio State Route 372"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729096", "text": "Egypt at the 1984 Winter Olympics\n\nEgypt competed in the Winter Olympic Games for the first, and only, time at the 1984 Winter Olympics in Sarajevo, Yugoslavia. Its only participant was alpine skier Jamil El Reedy, who competed in three disciplines, but did not win a medal.\n\nPrior to 1984, Egypt had sent athletes to eleven editions of the Summer Olympic Games (three times as the United Arab Republic), the 1906 Intercalated Games, and equestrian at the 1956 Summer Olympics. The 1984 Winter Games were Egypt's first, and only, appearance at the Winter Olympics. The nation entered one athlete, Jamil El-Reedy, to the alpine skiing tournament, where he competed in three disciplines, but failed to win a medal.\n\nEl-Reedy was born in Cairo, to an Egyptian father and an American mother who taught English at the American University in Cairo. He moved to Plattsburgh, New York when his family left Egypt following the Six-Day War. Coached by his father, he became a successful skier in high school, training on Whiteface Mountain. He was selected to represent Egypt at the 1984 Games at the age of 18, despite never having competed internationally, and in preparation spent 40 days in an Egyptian cave filled with snakes and scorpions to strengthen his mental resolve. At the Games he competed in three events, with his best placement being 46th out of 101 entrants in the men's slalom. He was also 60th out of 61 participants in the men's downhill, finishing over a minute behind the penultimate finisher, Greece's Lazaros Arkhontopoulos, and failed to finish the men's giant slalom after a fall on the first run.\n\n", "id": "7729096", "categories": ["Nations at the 1984 Winter Olympics", "Egypt at the Winter Olympics by year"], "title": "Egypt at the 1984 Winter Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729129", "text": "North Marion High School\n\nNorth Marion High School may refer to:\n\n", "id": "7729129", "categories": [], "title": "North Marion High School"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729139", "text": "List of ship commissionings in 1990\n\nThe list of ship commissionings in 1990 includes a chronological list of all ships commissioned in 1990.\n", "id": "7729139", "categories": ["Lists of ship commissionings"], "title": "List of ship commissionings in 1990"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729141", "text": "Annunciation with two Kneeling Donors (Lippi)\n\nThe Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi. Dating to 1440-45, it is housed in the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica of Palazzo Barberini, Rome.\n\nThe composition pivots around the Virgin, who occupies the centre of the scene. In the background, on the right, two small figures of women are riding a stair. The two donor portraits show the unknown donors kneeling behind a cordonata. That they were represented in natural size (i.e., in the same size as the religious figures) was a relatively new stylistic feature.\n\n\n<BR>\n", "id": "7729141", "categories": ["1440 paintings", "1445 paintings", "1442 paintings", "Books in art", "1444 paintings", "1441 paintings", "1443 paintings", "Depictions of kneeling", "Collections of the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica", "Annunciation in Christian art", "Paintings by Filippo Lippi"], "title": "Annunciation with two Kneeling Donors (Lippi)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729143", "text": "Maldivian Coast Guard\n\nThe Maldivian Coast Guard is the naval or maritime arm of the Maldivian National Defence Force (MNDF). Because the Maldives does not have a navy, the MNDF Coast Guard functions as the armed maritime force of the nation with a charter to contribute to national defence and by and large to respond to issues related to the maritime security of the nation. Therefore, the Coast Guard is documented as the custodian of the Maldives Maritime Domain. Maritime security is a constituent ingredient of the national security in a maritime nation such as the Maldives and its significance is best understood when one perceives the island or the archipelagic nature of the country.\n\nAfter the new government took power in 2008, the Coast Guard has been the highest priority of the defense sector in Maldives. Four Coast Guard squadrons are deployed in the southern, central, and northern regions of Maldives, and a Strategic Reserve has been established at the capital, Male'.\n\n\nThe roots of the MNDF Coast Guard lie in the 1570s Kalhuoffummi, as its insignia symbolizes, the legendary sailing boat used by the heroic Mohamed Thakurufaanu and his allies in his guerrilla battle to free the country from the invasion of the Portuguese. Until the establishment of the modern Coast Guard in 1980, the small speed boat section of the National Security Service was the maritime security service in the Maldives and it lays claim on being the Maldives oldest continuous seagoing force. The Coast Guard was established as a separate wing of the defence forces on 1 January 1980 with the late Colonel Hussain Fulhu as its first Commanding Officer. The Maldivian Coast Guard Air Elements was formed as the air wing of the Coast Guard in 1978 with one HAL Do 228 donated by India. In 2003 India Donated two HAL Dhruv's.\n\nThe MNDF Coast Guard has a dual role, with the strategic military application settling within the parameters of national defence and territorial integrity as the primary task while its secondary role is aimed at relatively non military aspects of maritime security which covers areas such as maritime terrorism, transnational crime, drug trafficking through maritime routes, smuggling, piracy and so forth. In times of peace, Coast Guard is popular as a force of goodwill due to its endeavours in building bridges of friendship with the public. It reaches out to people and save their lives by intensely conducting well planned and executed Search and Rescue (SAR) operations at sea and assume other humanitarian roles in crises when the public is in need.\n\nWhilst most other military services of the MNDF are either at standby or training for the unseen hostile actions, the Coast Guard is deployed every day. With decentralized Coast Guard squadrons placed at Area Commands in North, Central and South of Maldives and a strategic reserve at the capital Male’ under the new Strategic Defence Directive, and much responsibility placed on even the most junior sailors, the Coast Guard is frequently lauded for its quick responsiveness and adaptability in a broad range of tasks and emergencies.\n\nIts capabilities were strengthened and modernised after the 3 November 1988 attack by People's Liberation Organisation of Tamil Eelam terrorists.\n\nAfter the 1988 incident, 6 British patrol craft were acquired. These were 4 Tracker II class, 1 Dagger class and 1 Cheverton class ships. In 1998, 3 vessels were built at the Colombo Dockyard. These are 2 Coastal Surveillance Vessels of 24 meters, CGS Ghazee and CGS Iskandhar and 1 Fast Landing Craft of 20 metres length. The CGS also acquired a 17-meter fire fighting vessel.\n\nAfter the 2004 tsunami, the need for larger vessels with off-shore patrol capabilities were given a high priority. The Indian Navy donated a Trinkat class patrol vessel of 46 metres length in April 2006, commissioned as CGS Huravee and is commanded by Lieutenant Mohamed Jamshad. Lt. Jamshad had been the executive officer of CGS Huravee.\n\nThe Maldives Coast Guard has acquired two additional large offshore patrol craft, constructed at the Colombo Dockyard, Sri Lanka. These vessels are 42m and 35m in length. The 35m patrol craft was brought to Male on 21 April 2007 and commissioned as CGS Shaheedh Ali, commanded by Lieutenant Moahmed Fahumy. Lt Mohamed Fahumy was previously the executive officer of CGS Shaheed Ali.The 42m vessel was brought to Male on 11 November 2007 and commissioned as CGS Ghaazee. It is commanded by Lieutenant Ahmed Fathih. Lt Fathih was previously the executive officer of CGS Ghaazee.\n\nThe Ghazee was renamed CGS Nooradheen after the Sultan who founded the Maldivian armed forces on 21 April 1892. In addition to these, the Coast Guard operates some small in-shore patrol craft.\n\n\nThe MNDF coast guard has been vastly successful in securing after the modernization and expansion of their fleet. Counter-terrorist operations, anti-piracy missions, search and rescue operations as well as humanitarian operations. \n\nMNDF coast guard has successfully taken down pirate ships illegally entering the EEZ of the Maldives, mostly from Somalia. Almost every year, the coast guard has been able to arrest and apprehend roughly 200-450 pirates and prevent illegal entries into the Maldivian territory in the past years.\n\nOn 17th May of 2007, a gun running ship that was carrying mortar bombs and guns while illegally intruding the EEZ of the Maldivian territory fired upon a Maldivian fishing vessel. The Maldivian fishing vessel quickly informed the Maldives Coast Guard which resulted in a standoff between the Tamil Tigers' gun runner boat and CGS Huravee of the coast guard. After repetitive attempts to make them surrender with peaceful negotiations, the boat still refused to comply and attempted to take offensive action against the coast guard. With little choice left, the coast guard ship CGS Huravee fired upon the boat and sank it.\n\n", "id": "7729143", "categories": ["Military of the Maldives", "Coast guards"], "title": "Maldivian Coast Guard"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729151", "text": "Three-tier education\n\nThree-tier education refers to those structures of schooling, which exist in some parts of England, where pupils are taught in three distinct school types. A similar system was trialled in Scotland.\n\nIn a three-tier authorities children begin their compulsory education in a first school. Sometimes also called a \"lower school\" (or more simply, primary school), these schools cater for children aged up to an age between 8 and 10, and cover all of Key Stage 1 and the first years of Key Stage 2. Children then transfer to a Middle school. These schools cater for children during a period of 3 to 4 years between the ages of 8 and 14, depending on the local authority. These years cover parts of both Key Stage 2 and Key Stage 3. Following this, children transfer to a high school, sometimes known as an \"upper school\" for the remainder of their compulsory education, and sometimes on into the sixth form.\n\nMany local authorities trialled systems as this for a period from as early as 1968, with many more following suit during the early 1970s, particularly in 1972 when the raising of school leaving age in England and Wales from 15 to 16 saw many secondary schools lacking the adequate class space for 11- to 16-year-olds.\n\nHowever, most have since reverted to align their schools to the National Curriculum.\n\nSome LEAs reverted to the traditional age ranges as long ago as the late 1970s. One of the first areas to revert to the traditional age ranges was Halesowen in the West Midlands, which abandoned 5-9 first, 9-13 middle and 13-16/18 secondary schools in 1982 after just 10 years in use.\n\nNo local authorities now maintain an exclusively three-tier structure. A number of authorities have a mix of standard two-tier and three-tier provision with middle schools. Central Bedfordshire, Worcestershire and the Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead (Berkshire). Leicestershire operates a three-tier system in some areas, with children moving from primary school into secondary school after year six, and then to upper school after year nine.\n\nIn 2006, it was reported that Central Bedfordshire, Northumberland and the Isle of Wight were the only LEAs still exclusively using the three-tier system. The London Borough of Harrow, the city of Oxford and the counties of Dorset, Norfolk, Suffolk and Worcestershire(look up Bromsgrove and redditch) largely used the system until the 2000s and their middle schools were either closed or converted to primary schools catering to children up to age 11.\n\nA three-tier system also exists in Gibraltar.\n\nPresently, the 13+ intake mostly exists in the independent sector, although some have followed their respective LEAs and adopted the 11+ intake.\n\nThe main routes through education are shown in the diagram below, with three-tier routes being shown in blue and mauve:\n\n", "id": "7729151", "categories": ["School terminology"], "title": "Three-tier education"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729164", "text": "EELV\n\nEELV may refer to:\n", "id": "7729164", "categories": [], "title": "EELV"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729172", "text": "PHP accelerator\n\nA PHP accelerator is a PHP extension designed to improve the performance of software applications written in the PHP programming language.\n\nMost PHP accelerators work by caching the compiled opcode/bytecode of PHP representation of php files to avoid the overhead of parsing and compiling source code on each request (some or even most of which may never be executed). To further improve performance, the cached code is stored in shared memory and directly executed from there, minimizing the amount of slow disk reads and memory copying at runtime.\n\nPHP accelerators substantially increase the speed of PHP applications. Improvements of web page generation throughput by factors of two to seven have been observed.\n\nThe effect on application performance of opcode caching varies widely, depending on factors such as the inherent execution time of the PHP application and the percentage of source code actually executed on a given request, and whether additional optimization steps are performed. While a code optimizer may even slow down overall performance when used in isolation, it can provide an additional performance boost when coupled with a bytecode cache, as the optimization effort is performed just once.\n\n\n", "id": "7729172", "categories": ["PHP software", "Free proxy servers"], "title": "PHP accelerator"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729186", "text": "List of highways numbered 141\n\nThe following highways are numbered 141:\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7729186", "categories": [], "title": "List of highways numbered 141"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729188", "text": "Schapiro Hall\n\nMorris A. Schapiro Hall, popularly known as Schapiro, is an undergraduate residence hall of Columbia University. It is located half a block from the university's main campus, near the intersection of Broadway and 115th Street in the Morningside Heights neighborhood of the borough of Manhattan in New York City. Upon its completion in 1988, at a cost of $18 million, Schapiro allowed the university to house all its undergraduates in dormitories for the first time. This policy is now promised to all current and incoming undergraduate students at Columbia and Barnard. The 17-story building is one of the newer residences at Columbia and contains 245 single and 85 double residences, music practice rooms, floor lounges, and two study spaces. The \"Penthouse,\" the 16th floor, has a quiet study space for students and no residential rooms. The building was designed by the architectural firm Gruzen Samton Steinglass.\n\n\n", "id": "7729188", "categories": ["Columbia University campus"], "title": "Schapiro Hall"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729199", "text": "Josh Fields (infielder)\n\nJoshua Dean Fields (born December 14, 1982) is an American former professional baseball infielder. He was selected as the 18th overall pick in the first round of the 2004 Major League Baseball Draft by the Chicago White Sox. He has played in Major League Baseball for the White Sox and Kansas City Royals and in Nippon Professional Baseball for the Yomiuri Giants.\n\nFields was a two-sport athlete at Oklahoma State University, playing both baseball and football. He was selected as a Big 12 Conference All-Star at third base in , and had a career batting average of .364 over three years. Fields also earned three letters as a quarterback for the Cowboys. He led the team to two bowl games, including setting the Cotton Bowl Classic record with 307 passing yards against the University of Mississippi.\n\nEntering , Fields was ranked as the fourth-best prospect in the White Sox organization and the 95th-best prospect in Major League Baseball by \"Baseball America\". He hit safely in 14 straight games from August 6 – August 21 for the Birmingham Barons, tied for the eighth-longest streak in the Southern League.\n\nPrior to the season, Fields was once again ranked as the fourth-best prospect in the White Sox organization by \"Baseball America\". He homered in four consecutive games from May 11 – May 14 with the Charlotte Knights, and was selected to play in the All-Star Futures Game at Pittsburgh's PNC Park. Fields made his major league debut on September 13, , but did not record his first major league at-bat until September 18. In that game against the Detroit Tigers, Fields hit a pinch-hit home run off Detroit's Jamie Walker. He became the third player in White Sox history to hit a home run in his first major league at-bat, joining Carlos Lee (May 7, ) and Miguel Olivo (September 15, ) as the only other White Sox to do so.\n\nFields entered the season ranked as the second-best prospect in the White Sox organization and the 45th-best prospect in Major League Baseball by \"Baseball America\". Although he started the season at Triple-A Charlotte, he was called up to the White Sox after a season ending back injury to third basemam Joe Crede. He recorded his first multi-home run game on August 10 against the Seattle Mariners, hitting both off starter Jarrod Washburn. On August 26, , Fields made his first start in left field, though he only played 21 games at that position before being moved back to third base.\n\nFields ended his first season as a Major Leaguer by hitting a promising .244, 23 home runs, 67 RBI, and an OPS of .788 in 100 games. His 23 home runs tied him with Bill Melton for 3rd most home runs by a White Sox player in their rookie season, Melton did that in 157 games. Fields received one third-place vote for AL Rookie of the Year.\n\nEntering spring training for the season, Fields was expected to be the starting third baseman, with Joe Crede likely traded. However, Crede arrived at camp fully recovered from his injury and White Sox general manager Kenny Williams was said to be unsatisfied with the trade offers. This resulted in Crede being given the starting job and Fields once again beginning the season in Triple-A Charlotte. Fields had a disappointing, injury-riddled season with the Knights, in which he regressed to a .246 batting average and .772 OPS.\n\nOn July 25, 2008, he was called up to play with the White Sox after Crede was put on the 15-day disabled list. Fields underwent arthroscopic knee surgery at the end of the 2008 season, and was the White Sox's starting third baseman in until Gordon Beckham was recalled from Triple-A Charlotte on June 4 and took the position. \nOn July 23, 2009, in a game against the Tampa Bay Rays, Fields hit a grand slam in his first plate appearance of the game. This would later end up being the game-winning home run in Mark Buehrle's perfect game over the Tampa Bay Rays, winning 5–0. Fields also caught the final out of the perfect game, a groundout to White Sox shortstop Alexei Ramírez. Six days later he would be demoted to Triple A Charlotte to make room for newly acquired Mark Kotsay.\n\nOn November 6, 2009, Fields, along with Chris Getz, was traded by the White Sox to the Kansas City Royals in exchange for Mark Teahen. He played in 13 games for the Royals, hitting .306 during the 2010 season.\n\nOn December 20, 2010, Fields was signed to a minor league contract by the Pittsburgh Pirates.\nHowever, on March 28 he was traded by the Pirates to the Colorado Rockies, at the conclusion of spring training, for either a player to be named later or cash considerations. He recorded a .365 batting average with the Triple-A Colorado Springs Sky Sox, before being released on June 28, in order to pursue a career in Japan.\n\nFields signed with the Yomiuri Giants of Nippon Professional Baseball in Japan on June 28, 2011. In 40 games in Japan he hit only .202.\n\nHe signed a minor league contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers on January 4, 2012. After failing to win a spot on the Dodgers opening day roster, he was assigned to the AAA Albuquerque Isotopes. He played in 133 games for the Isotopes, with a .322 average with 13 homers and 71 RBI.\n\nFields signed with the Philadelphia Phillies in late November 2012 according to Baseball America.\n\n", "id": "7729199", "categories": ["1982 births", "Nippon Professional Baseball first basemen", "Winston-Salem Warthogs players", "Mexican League baseball third basemen", "Baseball players from Oklahoma", "Birmingham Barons players", "All-Star Futures Game players", "Colorado Springs Sky Sox players", "Tiburones de La Guaira players", "Oklahoma State Cowboys baseball players", "Major League Baseball third basemen", "Kansas City Royals players", "Lehigh Valley IronPigs players", "Charlotte Knights players", "American football quarterbacks", "American expatriate baseball players in Japan", "Living people", "Oklahoma State Cowboys football players", "Peoria Saguaros players", "Sportspeople from Ada, Oklahoma", "Chicago White Sox players", "Arizona League Royals players", "Northwest Arkansas Naturals players", "American expatriate baseball players in Mexico", "Piratas de Campeche players", "Nippon Professional Baseball third basemen", "Albuquerque Isotopes players", "Caribbean Series players", "Senadores de San Juan players", "Mexican League baseball first basemen"], "title": "Josh Fields (infielder)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729211", "text": "Jeff Most\n\nJeff Most (born September 15, 1960) is an American film producer, best known as the producer and music supervisor of \"The Crow\" film series.\n\nMost was co-producer on \"The Crow\" with Edward R. Pressman in 1993, and also produced the film's soundtrack album. He produced the films and soundtracks for the subsequent entries in the franchise: \"\" (1996), \"\" (2000) and \"\" (2005).\n\nJeff Most has also produced films such as \"The Specialist\", \"Girl\", \"Venice Underground\", \"The Tomb\" and \"On The Doll\". In early 2007, he produced a film called \"Kingshighway\", reuniting him with \"The Crow: Wicked Prayer\" star Edward Furlong. The film starred and was directed by Clayne Crawford.\n", "id": "7729211", "categories": ["1960 births", "American film producers", "Living people"], "title": "Jeff Most"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729227", "text": "DJ Puzzle\n\nDJ Puzzle (real name Jason Donnelly) is a Los Angeles-based American DJ, composer, music producer, remixer, and musician. He founded Peace Love Productions in 2001, a producer of royalty free sounds for loop based music software, which led to the beginning of his professional career in music. Since then he has composed songs for TV shows including Wicked Tuna and an Oculus VR exclusive virtual reality video game called Damaged Core.\n\nDamaged Core Oculus VR High Voltage Software 2016\n\nREFORM by Jamal Caesar - 2012 Blackash Blue Pictures\n\nPROGRESS by Jamal Caesar - 2015 HBO, Best Boy Productions, Blackash Blue Pictures\n\n\n\n\n\n\nInterview: \"When Your Music Plays on Anthony Bourdain’s Parts Unknown\"\n\n", "id": "7729227", "categories": ["1973 births", "Club DJs", "American electronic musicians", "Living people", "American dance musicians", "American DJs"], "title": "DJ Puzzle"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729244", "text": "Medma\n\nMedma or Mesma (Greek: , Steph. B.; , Strabo, Scymn. Ch.; but on coins, and so Apollodorus of Damascus, cited by Steph. B.; Scylax has , evidently a corruption for ), was an ancient Greek city of Southern Italy (Magna Graecia), on the west coast of the Bruttian (now Calabrian) peninsula, between Hipponium and the mouth of the Metaurus (probably today's River Petrace). The site is located at Rosarno, Province of Reggio Calabria, Calabria.\n\nIt was a colony founded by the Epizephyrian Locrians, and is said to have derived its name from an adjoining fountain. But though it is repeatedly noticed among the Greek cities in this part of Italy, it does not appear ever to have attained to any great power or importance. It is probable, however, that the Medimnaeans (), who are noticed by Diodorus as contributing a body of colonists to the repeopling of Messana (modern Messina) by Dionysius in 396 BCE, are no other than the Medmaeans, and that we should read in the passage in question. Though never a very conspicuous place, Medma seems to have survived the fall of many other more important cities of Magna Graecia, and it is noticed as a still existing town both by Strabo and Pliny the Elder. But the name is not found in Ptolemy, and all subsequent trace of it disappears. It appears from Strabo that the town itself was situated a little inland, and that it had a port or emporium on the seashore.\n\nThe name of Mesima is still borne by a river which flows into the sea a little below Nicotera, in the neighbourhood. Nicotera, the name of which is already found in the Antonine Itinerary, probably arose after the decline of Mesma.\n", "id": "7729244", "categories": ["Epizephyrian Locrians", "Former populated places in Italy", "Dorian colonies in Magna Graecia", "Buildings and structures in the Province of Reggio Calabria"], "title": "Medma"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729277", "text": "Random digit dialing\n\nRandom digit dialing (RDD) is a method for selecting people for involvement in telephone statistical surveys by generating telephone numbers at random. Random digit dialing has the advantage that it includes unlisted numbers that would be missed if the numbers were selected from a phone book. In populations where there is a high telephone-ownership rate, it can be a cost efficient way to get complete coverage of a geographic area.\n\nRDD is widely used for statistical surveys, including election opinion polling and selection of experimental control groups.\n\nAn important consideration in random digit dialing surveys is bias introduced by non-responders. Non-response bias can be a problem if responders differ from non-responders for the measured variables. For example, nonresponders may not have been contacted because they work multiple minimum-wage jobs. Various techniques are used to reduce the non-response rate, such as multiple call attempts, monetary incentives, advance letters, and leaving messages on answering machines, because reducing the non-response rate may directly reduce non-response bias. In addition, when trying to calculate total error estimates, response rate calculations can be imprecise because it can be difficult to determine whether certain telephone numbers are interviewable.\n\nWhen the desired coverage area matches up closely enough with country codes and area codes, random digits can be chosen within the desired area codes. In cases where the desired region doesn't match area codes (for instance, electoral districts), surveys must rely on telephone databases, and must rely on self-reported address information for unlisted numbers. Increasing use of mobile phones (although there are currently techniques which allow infusion of wireless phones into the RDD sampling frame), number portability, and VoIP have begun to decrease the ability for RDD to target specific areas within a country and achieve complete coverage.\n\n\n", "id": "7729277", "categories": [], "title": "Random digit dialing"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729301", "text": "Debye–Hückel theory\n\nThe Debye–Hückel theory was proposed by Peter Debye and Erich Hückel as a theoretical explanation for departures from ideality in solutions of electrolytes and plasmas. It is a linearized Poisson–Boltzmann model, which assumes an extremely simplified model of electrolyte solution but nevertheless gave accurate predictions of mean activity coefficients for ions in dilute solution. The Debye–Hückel equation provides a starting point for modern treatments of non-ideality of electrolyte solutions.\n\nIn the chemistry of electrolyte solutions, an ideal solution is a solution whose colligative properties are proportional to the concentration of the solute. Real solutions show departures from this kind of ideality at all but the very lowest concentrations (see, for example, Raoult's law). In order to accommodate these effects in the thermodynamics of solutions, the concept of activity was introduced: the properties are then proportional to the activities of the ions. Activity, \"a\", is proportional to concentration, \"c\". The proportionality constant is known as an activity coefficient, formula_1.\nIn an ideal electrolyte solution the activity coefficients of all the ions are equal to one. Ideality of electrolyte solution can be achieved only in very dilute solutions. Non-ideality of more concentrated solutions arises principally (but not exclusively) because ions of opposite charge attract each other due to electrostatic forces, while ions of the same charge repel each other. In consequence ions are not randomly distributed throughout the solution, as they would be in an ideal solution.\n\nActivity coefficients of single ions cannot be measured experimentally because an electrolyte solution must contain both positively charged ions and negatively charged ions. Instead, a mean activity coefficient, formula_3 is defined. For example, with the electrolyte NaCl\n\nIn general, the mean activity coefficient of a fully dissociated electrolyte of formula AB is given by\n\nActivity coefficients are themselves functions of concentration as the amount of inter-ionic interaction increases as the concentration of the electrolyte increases. Debye and Hückel developed a theory with which single ion activity coefficients could be calculated. By calculating the mean activity coefficients from them the theory could be tested against experimental data. It was found to give excellent agreement for \"dilute\" solutions.\n\nA description of Debye–Hückel theory includes a very detailed discussion of the assumptions and their limitations as well as the mathematical development and applications.\n\nA snapshot of a 2-dimensional section of an idealized electrolyte solution is shown in the picture. The ions are shown as spheres with unit electrical charge. The solvent (pale blue) is shown as a uniform medium, without structure. On average, each ion is surrounded more closely by ions of opposite charge than by ions of like charge. These concepts were developed into a quantitative theory involving ions of charge \"z\"\"e\" and \"z\"\"e\", where \"z\" can be any integer. The principal assumption is that departure from ideality is due to electrostatic interactions between ions, mediated by Coulomb's law: the force of interaction between two electric charges, separated by a distance, \"r\" in a medium of relative permittivity ε is given by\n\nIt is also assumed that\n\nThe last assumption means that each cation is surrounded by a spherically symmetric cloud of other ions. The cloud has a net negative charge. Similarly each anion is surrounded by a cloud with net positive charge.\n\nThe deviation from ideality is taken to be a function of the potential energy resulting from the electrostatic interactions between ions and their surrounding clouds. To calculate this energy two steps are needed.\n\nThe first step is to specify the electrostatic potential for ion \"j\" by means of Poisson's equation\nψ(\"r\") is the total potential at a distance, \"r\", from the central ion and ρ(\"r\") is the averaged charge density of the surrounding cloud at that distance. To apply this formula it is essential that the cloud has spherical symmetry, that is, the charge density is a function only of distance from the central ion as this allows the Poisson equation to be cast in terms of spherical coordinates with no angular dependence.\n\nThe second step is to calculate the charge density by means of a Boltzmann distribution.\n\nwhere \"k\" is Boltzmann constant and \"T\" is the temperature. This distribution also depends on the potential ψ(\"r\") and this introduces a serious difficulty in terms of the superposition principle. Nevertheless, the two equations can be combined to produce the Poisson–Boltzmann equation.\n\nSolution of this equation is far from straightforward. Debye and Hückel expanded the exponential as a truncated Taylor series to first order. The zeroth order term vanishes because the solution is on average electrically neutral (so that ∑ n z = 0), which leaves us with only the first order term. The result has the form of the Helmholtz equation\n\nwhich has an analytical solution. This equation applies to electrolytes with equal numbers of ions of each charge. Nonsymmetrical electrolytes require another term with ψ. For symmetrical electrolytes, this reduces to the modified spherical Bessel equation\n\nThe coefficients formula_12 and formula_13 are fixed by the boundary conditions. As formula_14, formula_15 must not diverge, so formula_16. At formula_17, which is the distance of the closest approach of ions, the force exerted by the charge should be balanced by the force of other ions, imposing formula_18, from which formula_12 is found, yielding\n\nThe electrostatic potential energy, formula_21, of the ion at formula_22 is\n\nThis is the potential energy of a single ion in a solution. The multiple-charge generalization from electrostatics gives an expression for the potential energy of the entire solution (see also: Debye–Hückel equation). The mean activity coefficient is given by the logarithm of this quantity as follows (see also: Extensions of the theory)\n\nwhere \"I\" is the ionic strength and \"a\" is a parameter that represents the distance of closest approach of ions. For aqueous solutions at 25 °C \"A\" = 0.51 moldm and \"B\" = 3.29 nmmoldm\n\nThe most significant aspect of this result is the prediction that the mean activity coefficient is a function of \"ionic strength\" rather than the electrolyte concentration. For very low values of the ionic strength the value of the denominator in the expression above becomes nearly equal to one. In this situation the mean activity coefficient is proportional to the square root of the ionic strength. This is known as the Debye–Hückel limiting law.\n\nThis equation for formula_27 gives satisfactory agreement with experimental measurements for low electrolyte concentrations, typically less than 10 mol/L. Deviations from the theory occur at higher concentrations and with electrolytes that produce ions of higher charges, particularly unsymmetrical electrolytes. Essentially these deviations occur because the model is hopelessly oversimplified, so there is little to be gained making small adjustments to the model. The individual assumptions can be challenged in turn.\nMoreover, ionic radius is assumed to be negligible, but at higher concentrations, the ionic radius becomes comparable to the radius of the ionic atmosphere.\nMost extensions to Debye–Hückel theory are empirical in nature. They usually allow the Debye–Hückel equation to be followed at low concentration and add further terms in some power of the ionic strength to fit experimental observations. The main extensions are the Davies equation, Pitzer equations and specific ion interaction theory.\n\nThe theory can be applied also to dilute solutions of mixed electrolytes. Freezing point depression measurements has been used to this purpose.\n\nThe treatment given so far is for a system not subject to an external electric field. When conductivity is measured the system is subject to an oscillating external field due to the application of an AC voltage to electrodes immersed in the solution. Debye and Hückel modified their theory in 1926 and their theory was further modified by Lars Onsager in 1927. All the postulates of the original theory were retained. In addition it was assumed that the electric field causes the charge cloud to be distorted away from spherical symmetry. After taking this into account, together with the specific requirements of moving ions, such as viscosity and electrophoretic effects, Onsager was able to derive a theoretical expression to account for the empirical relation known as Kohlrausch's Law, for the molar conductivity, Λ.\nformula_29 is known as the limiting molar conductivity, \"K\" is an empirical constant and \"c\" is the electrolyte concentration. Limiting here means \"at the limit of the infinite dilution\").\nOnsager's expression is\nwhere \"A\" and \"B\" are constants that depend only on known quantities such as temperature, the charges on the ions and the dielectric constant and viscosity of the solvent. This is known as the Debye-Hückel-Onsager equation. However, this equation only applies to very dilute solutions and has been largely superseded by other equations due to Fuoss and Onsager, 1932 and 1957 and later.\n", "id": "7729301", "categories": ["Equilibrium chemistry", "Thermodynamic models", "Electrochemistry"], "title": "Debye–Hückel theory"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729305", "text": "Axel Lindahl\n\nAxel Theodor Lindahl (27 July 1841 – 11 December 1906) was a Swedish photographer notable for his early photography of Norwegian landscapes.\n\nLindahl was born in Mariestad in southwestern Sweden. With his brother Udo he opened his own photography studio in Uddevalla in 1865; within one year, his work was exhibited in museums. By around 1867, he had moved his business to Gothenburg. Once established there, he extended his interest to landscape photography, focusing initially on the Swedish west coast, and then moving into Norway. In 1883 he sold his interest in the studio in Sweden and made Norwegian landscapes his exclusive area of business, working closely with the publisher Rich. Andvord.\n\nUnlike many of his contemporary photographers who emphasized the dramatic nature of Norwegian landscapes, Lindahl sought in his composition the harmonious aesthetic of his subject matter.\n\nHe remained active throughout the 19th century and left over 3500 negative plates. These were taken over by Anders Beer Wilse and were passed through several owners until the Norwegian government took them over in 1991 and placed them in the archives of Norsk Folkemuseum in Oslo.\n\n", "id": "7729305", "categories": ["Photography in Norway", "1841 births", "19th-century Swedish photographers"], "title": "Axel Lindahl"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729310", "text": "Olga Lopes-Seale\n\nDame Olga Lopes-Seale, DA, GCM, MBE, BSS (26 December 1918 – 4 February 2011) was a Guyanese-born Barbados-based social and community worker, radio broadcaster and singer.\n\nBorn in Guyana as Olga Lopes she worked as a broadcaster for Radio Demerara (where she acquired the nickname \"Auntie Olga\") before migrating to Barbados with her Barbadian husband, Dick Seale.\n\nIn Barbados, she worked for the Barbados Rediffusion Services Limited (now Starcom Network) and was active in community work. In the 1940s and 1950s she was known as \"the Vera Lynn of the Caribbean\". In 2005, she was made a 2005 Dame of St. Andrew.\n\nOn 9 December 2010, she fell at her home and broke her hip, suffering multiple fractures, leaving her unable to continue her charity work for the \"Needy Children's Fund\".\n\nLopes-Seale died on 4 February 2011, aged 92 at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Bridgetown, Barbados.\n\n", "id": "7729310", "categories": ["Barbadian radio personalities", "Place of birth missing", "Members of the Order of the British Empire", "Guyanese radio personalities", "Barbadian broadcasters", "Disease-related deaths in Barbados", "1918 births", "2011 deaths", "Guyanese singers", "Starcom Network", "Knights and Dames of St Andrew (Barbados)"], "title": "Olga Lopes-Seale"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729314", "text": "List of ship launches in 1997\n\nThe list of ship launches in 1997 includes a chronological list of all ships launched in 1997.\n", "id": "7729314", "categories": ["1997 in transport", "Lists of ship launches"], "title": "List of ship launches in 1997"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729327", "text": "The Fabulous Clipjoint\n\nThe Fabulous Clipjoint, first published in book form in 1947 (originally published under the title ``Dead Man's Indemnity`` in Mystery Book Magazine, April 1946), is the first full-length novel by writer Fredric Brown, who had honed his craft by publishing hundreds of short stories in the pulp magazines of the day. \"The Fabulous Clipjoint\" is also the first of seven detective novels featuring the nephew/uncle team of Ed and Am Hunter. The subsequent novels in the series are \"The Dead Ringer\", \"The Bloody Moonlight\", \"Compliments of a Fiend\", \"Death Has Many Doors\", \"The Late Lamented\", and \"Mrs Murphy's Underpants\".\n\nWhen teenaged Ed Hunter's alcoholic father is murdered, Ed is for all intents and purposes orphaned, as he feels little affection for his mean-spirited stepmother and hypersexual stepsister. The police dismiss the case as nothing more than the random murder of a back-alley drunk, and so Ed decides to investigate the crime on his own.\n\nEd enlists the help of his father's brother, Ambrose \"Am\" Hunter, an itinerant carny, whom he has not seen in many years, and the two of them set out to solve the crime. Together they wade through a swamp of unseemly characters of the Chicago underworld to expose the real murderer of Ed's father. Along the way, with Am's guidance, Ed comes to realize that his father was not the hapless, pathetic man he had always believed him to be.\n\n\"The Fabulous Clipjoint\", like most of Brown's works, is notable for its solid craftsmanship, atmosphere, and suspense. In 1948 it received the Edgar Award for Best First Novel, which marks the only occasion Brown was nominated for the award.\n", "id": "7729327", "categories": ["American crime novels", "Edgar Award-winning works", "Novels by Fredric Brown", "1947 American novels", "Debut novels"], "title": "The Fabulous Clipjoint"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729346", "text": "Sainte-Radegonde, Deux-Sèvres\n\nSainte-Radegonde (sometimes spelled Sainte-Radégonde) is a former commune in the Deux-Sèvres department in western France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the commune Thouars.\n\n", "id": "7729346", "categories": ["Former communes of Deux-Sèvres"], "title": "Sainte-Radegonde, Deux-Sèvres"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729351", "text": "List of ship launches in 1991\n\nThe list of ship launches in 1991 includes a chronological list of all ships launched in 1991.\n", "id": "7729351", "categories": ["1991 in transport", "Lists of ship launches"], "title": "List of ship launches in 1991"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729352", "text": "Haiti at the 1932 Summer Olympics\n\nHaiti competed at the 1932 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, United States. The country's delegation consisted of two track and field athletes, André Theard and Sylvio Cator. Cator had previously won a silver medal at the 1928 Olympics.\n\nMen's 100 meters\n\nMen's broad jump\n\n", "id": "7729352", "categories": ["Haiti at the Summer Olympics by year", "1932 in Haiti", "Nations at the 1932 Summer Olympics"], "title": "Haiti at the 1932 Summer Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729380", "text": "Haiti at the 1960 Summer Olympics\n\nHaiti competed at the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, Italy. It was the first time in 28 years that the nation had sent athletes to the Olympic Games. Haiti's delegation consisted of two people, weightlifter Philome Laguerre and the head of the delegation, Pierre Plaisimond.\n\n", "id": "7729380", "categories": ["Haiti at the Summer Olympics by year", "1960 in Haiti", "Nations at the 1960 Summer Olympics"], "title": "Haiti at the 1960 Summer Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729388", "text": "Haiti at the 1972 Summer Olympics\n\nHaiti competed at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, West Germany. It was the first time in 12 years that the nation had sent athletes to the Olympic Games. Haiti's delegation consisted of seven competitors, all track and field athletes, and eight officials. One of the athletes, Elsie Baptiste, ended up not competing in any events. The only other woman on the team, Mireille Joseph, ran in the 100 metre race, becoming the first Haitian woman to compete in the Olympics. Among the delegation's officials were Lamartine Clermont, Franck Godefroy, Jacques Joachim, Philomene Joachim, Jules Merine, and Jean-M. Verly.\n\nMen's 100 metres\n\nMen's 200 metres\n\nMen's 400 metres\n\nMen's 800 metres\n\nMen's 10000 metres\n\nMen's marathon\n\nWomen's 100 metres\n\n", "id": "7729388", "categories": ["Haiti at the Summer Olympics by year", "Nations at the 1972 Summer Olympics", "1972 in Haiti"], "title": "Haiti at the 1972 Summer Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729416", "text": "Haiti at the 1984 Summer Olympics\n\nHaiti competed at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, United States. The nation returned to the Olympic Games after participating in the American-led boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympics. Haiti's delegation consisted of two officials and four competitors (one track and field athlete, two fencers, and one tennis player).\n\nMen's Marathon\n\n\n\nMen's singles\n\n", "id": "7729416", "categories": ["Haiti at the Summer Olympics by year", "Nations at the 1984 Summer Olympics", "1984 in Haitian sport"], "title": "Haiti at the 1984 Summer Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729422", "text": "Thomas Shone\n\nThomas Shone (1784–1868) was an 1820 Settler in South Africa. Born in London, he went to sea at 18 (or before) and while on board the Lord Nelson, was captured by the French on 14 August 1803. He was imprisoned in Givet and Sarrelivre prison camps and there he learnt his trade of shoe making. Lord Nelson (East Indiaman) see 2nd Voyage. This fully describes the capture and recapture of the vessel concerned. Thomas Shone was not in the Royal Navy but was an Ordinary Seaman, joining the East India Company in 1802 (see ships' records and French POW records).\n\nWith the aid of French Freemasons he escaped to England where he started a family in London. In 1820 his three children were Wesleyan, baptised soon before boarding \"Nautilus\" with his wife Sarah Phillips, and sailed to Algoa Bay. He had joined a party as a labourer despite his ability to read and write. As part of the Scott party, which meant he was bound to work at his master's command, almost as a slave for five years to repay the cost of his voyage, they were settled close to the Xhosa border and were the last to leave after the first Xhosa war broke out, losing their entire belongings. He built up a second farm which was again burnt down in a later border war. On the death of his wife Sarah in 1837 he became melancholy and decided to write a daily journal, which he continued for 30 years. The journal provides insight into the day-to-day lives of the 1820 Settlers and their hardships. It is located at the Cory Library at Rhodes University.\n\nHis grandson, Thomas Leopold Hamilton Shone, founded the manganese mining industry in South Africa.\n\n", "id": "7729422", "categories": ["1784 births", "1868 deaths"], "title": "Thomas Shone"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729436", "text": "Global Justice or Global Revenge?\n\nGlobal Justice or Global Revenge? International Criminal Justice at the Crossroads (2003) is a book by Austrian philosopher Hans Köchler, who was appointed by the United Nations as observer of the Lockerbie bombing trial in the Netherlands (2000-2002). Turkish and Indian editions of the book were published in 2005, an Arabic edition was published in 2011.\n\nThe book deals with the evolving concept of universal jurisdiction, the doctrine of humanitarian intervention, legal questions of international terrorism, and whether international criminal justice can at all be practiced in the absence of a global balance of power. The book analyzes the various international criminal courts since Nuremberg and provides a critical assessment of the prospects of the International Criminal Court. It challenges the assumption of established legal theory in which the normative framework of criminal justice can be abstracted from actual power relations and offers elements of a new doctrine on the \"dialectical relationship\" between power and law.\n\nThe gradual assertion of the International Criminal Court's authority will be the test case for the \"separation of powers\", which is the indispensable requirement of the rule of law, whether at the national or international level. Only a fully independent international court will guarantee that a system of \"global justice\", associated with universal jurisdiction, will not turn into a system of \"global revenge\" where political interests, not the principles of impartiality and fairness, determine the practice of international criminal law.\n\nI. The Developing Idea and Practice of International Criminal Justice in the Context of State Sovereignty and Individual Responsibility\n\n\nII. Humanitarian Intervention in the Context of Modern Power Politics\n\n\nIII. The United Nations, the International Rule of Law and Terrorism\n\n\nIV. Annex\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7729436", "categories": ["International law literature", "International criminal law", "Works about the International Criminal Court", "Philosophy of law"], "title": "Global Justice or Global Revenge?"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729440", "text": "Haiti at the 1996 Summer Olympics\n\nHaiti competed at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, United States. The Haitian team consisted of seven competitors: three track and field athletes, two judoka, one swimmer and one tennis player.\n\nMen's 200 metres \n\nMen's 800 metres\n\nMen's 110 metre hurdles\n\nMen's Half Middleweight (– 78 kg)\n\nMen's Middleweight (– 86 kg)\n\nMen's 100 metre butterfly\n\nMen's Singles\n\n\n", "id": "7729440", "categories": ["Haiti at the Summer Olympics by year", "1996 in Haitian sport", "Nations at the 1996 Summer Olympics"], "title": "Haiti at the 1996 Summer Olympics"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729443", "text": "Persian calligraphy\n\nPersian calligraphy () or Iranian calligraphy () is the calligraphy of the Persian language. It is one of the most revered arts throughout history of Iran.\n\nAfter the introduction of Islam in the 7th century, Persians adapted the Arabic alphabet to Persian and developed the contemporary Persian alphabet. The Arabic alphabet has 28 characters. An additional four letters were added by Iranians [http://www.persiancalligraphy.org/History-of-Calligraphy.html [2<nowiki>]</nowiki>], which resulted in the 32 letters currently present in the Persian alphabet.\n\nAround one thousand years ago, Ibn Muqlah () and his brother created six genres of Iranian calligraphy, namely \"Mohaqiq\", \"Reyhan\", \"Sols\", \"Naskh\", \"Toqi\" and \"Reqa\". These genres were common for four centuries in Persia. In the 7th century (Hijri calendar), Hassan Farsi Kateb combined the \"Naskh\" and \"Reqah\" styles and invented a new genre of Persian calligraphy named \"Ta'liq\". In the 14th century, Mir Ali Tabrizi combined two major scripts of his time, i.e. Naskh and Taliq, and created a new Persian calligraphic style called \"Nas’taliq\"[http://www.persiancalligraphy.org/History-of-Calligraphy.html [2<nowiki>]</nowiki>]. In the past 500 years Nastaʿlīq (also anglicized as Nastaleeq; \"\") has been the predominant style for writing the Perso-Arabic script.\n\nIn the 17th century Morteza Gholi Khan Shamlou and Mohammad Shafi Heravi created a new genre called cursive Nastaʿlīq Shekasteh Nastaʿlīq (Persian: شکسته نستعلیق). Almost a century later, Abdol-Majid Taleqani, who was a prominent artist at the time, brought this genre to its highest level. This calligraphic style is based on the same rules as Nas’taliq. However, cursive Nas’taliq has a few significant differences: it provides more flexible movements, and it is slightly more stretched and curved. Yadollah Kaboli is one of the most prominent contemporary calligraphers within this style.\n\nIn 1950, the \"Iran's Association of Calligraphers\" was founded by Hossein Mirkhani, Ali Akbar Kaveh, Ebrahim Bouzari, Hassan Mirkhani and Mehdi Baiani. For an overview of Persian calligraphy's development within Afghanistan, see \"Calligraphy during last two centuries in Afghanistan\" (1964), by Azizuddin Vakili.\n\n, Jalil Rasouli, Parviz Tanavoli, and Nima Behnoud use Persian calligraphy and Rumi poetry in dress designing.\nabol atighetchi, abolghassem uses combination of colored naskh, suluth and kufic style calligraphy with large letters in a single large format acrylic painting for his work presentation and circles in gold leaf or simple color to decorate but in the nastaligh style lots of colorful geometrical forms and lines are used to modernize the painting and also the same technique is used to modernize the large format birds of bessmel (مرغ بسمل), all drawn with large letters.this style of work can be classified as post modern.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7729443", "categories": ["Islamic calligraphy", "Iranian art", "Persian calligraphy"], "title": "Persian calligraphy"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729463", "text": "Giovanni Grancino\n\nGiovanni Grancino (1637–1709), son of Andrea Grancino, was one of the early Milanese luthiers, and may have worked with his brother, Francesco.\n\nGrancino's workshops were all located on \"Contrada Larga\", now \"Via Larga\" in Milan. His instruments bear the characteristic \"segno della corona\" (mark of the crown).\n\nAlthough the luthiers of Milan created instruments of varying quality, Grancino's violins, violas, cellos and double basses are considered superior. Grancino used a varnish which was a finely textured clear yellow to pale brown color.\n\nGrancino's early instrument patterns and designs were influenced by Niccolò Amati of Cremona, whose impressive works influenced many Italian luthiers of the period. However, Grancino's later productions show flatter arching and narrower form under the influence of Stradivari. Grancino's cellos tend to be larger than others, yet with a clear sound characteristic of the Italian luthiers.\n\nThe Grancino manufactory was continued by members of the Testore family. The eldest of them, Carlo Giuseppe Testore, built a violin for Grancino which is now housed in the National Music Museum on the campus of the University of South Dakota.\n\nAmong Grancino's students was the Milanese luthier Giovanni Vasallo.\n\nGrancino's violins play an interesting role in fiction. Canadian author, Emily-Jane Hills Orford's (born Toronto, 1957) novel, \"Spring\" (PublishAmerica 2005), features a Grancino violin with a mystery to unravel. American Harold Decker's self-published novel, \"I, Giulia: The View Through F-Holes,\" recounts the life of his treasured Grancino violin. Canadian children's performer, Peggy Hills, (born Toronto 1950) also featured a Grancino violin in her children's recording, \"Peggy's Violin\", which was nominated for a Juno in 2007.\n\n\n", "id": "7729463", "categories": ["1637 births", "1709 deaths"], "title": "Giovanni Grancino"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729464", "text": "David Heaton\n\nDavid Heaton (March 10, 1823 – June 25, 1870) was an American attorney and politician, a US Representative from North Carolina. He earlier was elected to the state senates of Ohio and Minnesota.\n\nHeaton was born in Hamilton, Butler County, Ohio, March 10, 1823 to James Heaton (1779–1841) and Mary Morrell (1782–1871), migrants from the East. He completed preparatory studies and studied law as a legal apprentice. He was admitted to the bar.\n\nAfter getting active in politics, Heaton was elected to the Ohio State Senate in 1855.\n\nTwo years later, he moved to St. Anthony Falls, Minnesota, where he entered politics. He was elected as a member of the Minnesota State Senate, serving 1858–1863.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, in 1863 Heaton was appointed as a special agent of the United States Treasury Department and the United States depository in New Bern, North Carolina after Union troops occupied the area. A contraband camp was set up near the city to begin education of former slaves for independence. In 1864, he was offered the appointment as the Third Auditor of the Treasury but declined.\n\nHeaton decided to stay in North Carolina, where he served as a member of its constitutional convention in 1867 under Reconstruction. When the state was readmitted to representation, he was elected as a Republican to the Fortieth Congress and reelected to the Forty-first Congress, serving from July 15, 1868, until his death. He was chairman of the Committee on Coinage, Weights, and Measures (Forty-first Congress).\n\nAfter his nomination as a Republican candidate for reelection to the Forty-second Congress, he died in Washington, D.C., on June 25, 1870. His body was returned to New Bern, where he was interred in the National Cemetery.\n\n", "id": "7729464", "categories": ["Politicians from New Bern, North Carolina", "Members of the United States House of Representatives from North Carolina", "Minnesota state senators", "1823 births", "Ohio state senators", "1870 deaths", "Ohio Republicans", "North Carolina Republicans", "Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives"], "title": "David Heaton"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729472", "text": "Yemanzhelinsk\n\nYemanzhelinsk () is a town and the administrative center of Yemanzhelinsky District in Chelyabinsk Oblast, Russia, located near the border with Kazakhstan on the eastern slopes of the Southern Ural Mountains, south of Chelyabinsk, the administrative center of the oblast. Population: \n\nFounded in 1770 as a Cossack village, it has been known as the \"stanitsa\" of Yemanzhelinskaya () since 1866. It became a coal mining settlement in 1930–1931, which was granted town status on September 25, 1951.. It was one of the places closest to the hypocenter of the blast from the 2013 Russian meteor event.\n\nWithin the framework of administrative divisions, Yemanzhelinsk serves as the administrative center of Yemanzhelinsky District. As an administrative division, it is, together with three rural localities, incorporated within Yemanzhelinsky District as the Town of Yemanzhelinsk. As a municipal division, the Town of Yemanzhelinsk is incorporated within Yemanzhelinsky Municipal District as Yemanzhelinskoye Urban Settlement.\n\n", "id": "7729472", "categories": ["Yemanzhelinsk"], "title": "Yemanzhelinsk"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729513", "text": "Rosario de la Frontera\n\nRosario de la Frontera is a city in the center-south of the province of Salta, Argentina. It has 26,174 inhabitants as per the , and is the head town of the Rosario de la Frontera Department. It is located on National Route 9, by the Horcones River.\n", "id": "7729513", "categories": ["Populated places established in 1776", "Populated places in Salta Province"], "title": "Rosario de la Frontera"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729515", "text": "Terek\n\nTerek may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7729515", "categories": [], "title": "Terek"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729523", "text": "Kevin Cronin\n\nKevin Patrick Cronin (born October 6, 1951) is the lead vocalist, rhythm guitarist, and occasional pianist for the American rock band, REO Speedwagon. REO Speedwagon had several hits on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 throughout the 1980s, including two chart-toppers written by Cronin: \"Keep on Loving You\" (1981) and \"Can't Fight This Feeling\" (1985).\n\nCronin is from the suburbs of Chicago, Illinois, area. He was born in north suburban Evanston, Illinois and grew up (and learned guitar) in southwest suburban Oak Lawn. He attended St. Linus Catholic Elementary School. He graduated from Chicago's Brother Rice High School.\n\nKevin Cronin joined REO Speedwagon shortly after the group recorded its debut album in 1971. He recorded one album with the band, 1972's \"R.E.O./T.W.O.\", but left the band soon after because of missed rehearsals and creative disagreements. Cronin returned to the fold in 1976.\n\nCronin's return came after Greg X. Volz turned down the position for lead vocals due to his conversion to Christianity. The band's success hit its peak in the late 1970s and early 1980s, but are still releasing records such as \"Find Your Own Way Home\" in 2007. Their most famous album, \"Hi Infidelity\", sold over 10 million copies. Kevin has stated in various interviews that they \"play for free but get paid for the traveling\". He has written or co-written many of the band's hit songs such as \"Keep on Loving You\", \"Can't Fight This Feeling\", \"I Do' Wanna Know\", \"Keep Pushin'\", \"Roll With the Changes\", \"Time for Me to Fly\", \"Here With Me\", \"In My Dreams\", and \"Don't Let Him Go\".\nCronin was a celebrity contestant on \"Don't Forget the Lyrics!\" on March 27, 2008. He reached $350,000 before forgetting the lyrics to \"Last Dance\" by Donna Summer.\n\nHe appears on an infomercial advertising TimeLife's \"Ultimate Rock Ballads\", which feature tracks by REO Speedwagon, mostly from the 1980s, when the band enjoyed their greatest success.\n\nCronin's wife is named Lisa. His oldest child is a son named Paris. He also has a daughter, Holly; his youngest are twins Josh and Shane.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7729523", "categories": ["People from Oak Lawn, Illinois", "American male singers", "REO Speedwagon members", "American people of Irish descent", "Living people", "American rock guitarists", "1951 births", "American male guitarists", "American rock singers", "20th-century American guitarists"], "title": "Kevin Cronin"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729524", "text": "Lake Chamo\n\nLake Chamo (Amharic: \"Chamo Hayk\") is a lake in the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples' Region of southern Ethiopia. Located in the Main Ethiopian Rift, it is at an elevation of 1,110 meters. The Chamo lake is just to the south of Lake Abaya and the city of Arba Minch, east of the Guge Mountains, and west of the Amaro Mountains.\n\nLake Chamo northern end lies in the Nechisar National Park. According to figures published by the Central Statistical Agency, it is 32 kilometers long and 13 wide, with a surface area of 317 square kilometers and a maximum depth of 14 meters with a catchment of about 18757 square kilometers in size. Other sources locate it on an elevation of 1,235 meters with a length of 26 km a widths of 22 km an area of 551 square kilometers a chatchment of 2220 square kilometers and a maximum depth of 10 meters.\n\nThe lake is fringed with beds of \"Typha\", as well as wetlands. It is fed by the Kulfo River and several small streams, as well as overflow from Lake Abaya brought to it by the Ualo River. Oscar Neumann, exploring the area in 1901, found a dry channel connecting Lake Chamo to the Sagan River, which led him to conclude the lake contributes to the Sagan in years of heavy rainfall.\n\nWildlife include fish like the catfish \"Bagrus docmak\" and Nile perch, as well as hippopotamus and Nile crocodiles.\n\n\n", "id": "7729524", "categories": ["Lakes of Ethiopia", "Lakes of the Great Rift Valley"], "title": "Lake Chamo"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729527", "text": "Siemens Saudi Arabia\n\nSiemens Saudi Arabia (officially Siemens Limited) is the principal Saudi Arabian subsidiary of the multinational engineering and electronics company Siemens AG. It provides comprehensive solutions in many fields, ranging from oil and gas, petrochemicals, power generation and distribution to information and communications, and health care.\n\nIn March 1999 Siemens Ltd. was registered in Jeddah as a joint venture between E.A. Juffali and Brothers and Siemens AG as a majority shareholder.\n\nIn the field of Process Control and Industrial Automation, Siemens pursues mutually beneficial relationships with systems integrators, such as Cube Technologies.\n\n\n", "id": "7729527", "categories": [], "title": "Siemens Saudi Arabia"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729557", "text": "Paul Finnegan\n\nPaul James Finnegan (born 1953) is a Chicago-based investor and philanthropist. In 1992, he co-founded Madison Dearborn Partners and currently serves as the company's co-CEO, and since 2014, has served as the Treasurer of the Harvard Corporation and the Chair of the Harvard Management Company.\n\nFinnegan was born and raised in Massachusetts and attended Phillips Academy in Andover, graduating in 1971. He graduated from Harvard in 1975, where he was a member of the College's ski team. He also attended Harvard Business School.\n\nIn 1992, Finnegan co-founded Madison Dearborn. He has served as co-CEO since 2007, when fellow co-founder and then-CEO John Canning Jr. was looking to buy the Chicago Cubs.\n\nFinnegan is also a director at CDW.\n\nHe is a major donor in Illinois politics, having donated $100,000 to Rahm Emanuel's campaign for mayor in 2015 and another $200,000 to Emanuel's aborted run for mayor in 2019.\n\nThrough the Finnegan Family Foundation, he has donated to causes in the areas of education, youth, health, and local Chicago community.\n\nFinnegan has been a member of the Harvard Corporation since 2012, and has served as it treasurer since replacing Jim Rothenberg in 2014. He was on the search committee that selected Larry Bacow as the 29th President of Harvard University.\n\nFinnegan serves of the board of Teach For America and a variety of Chicago metropolitan area non-profits.\n", "id": "7729557", "categories": ["American chief executives of financial services companies", "Phillips Academy alumni", "American company founders", "Harvard College alumni", "Businesspeople from Massachusetts", "Living people", "People from Scituate, Massachusetts", "1953 births", "Madison Dearborn Partners", "American philanthropists"], "title": "Paul Finnegan"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729562", "text": "Jacks Knob Trail\n\nJacks Knob Trail is a hiking trail that has been designated as a National Recreation Trail in Georgia. The trail is 4.5 miles (7.2 km) long and is located in the Chattahoochee National Forest in the Brasstown Ranger District. The trail is managed by the U.S. Forest Service.\n\nThe trail starts at Brasstown Bald and heads in a southernly direction along the boundary between Union and Towns counties. After and a descent of nearly , it reaches Jacks Gap and crosses Georgia State Route 180. Shortly after reaching Jacks Gap, Jacks Knob Trail enters the Mark Trail Wilderness. The trails ends at an intersection with the Appalachian Trail below the peak of Jacks Knob at an elevation of about .\n\n", "id": "7729562", "categories": ["Protected areas of Union County, Georgia", "Protected areas of Towns County, Georgia", "Hiking trails in Georgia (U.S. state)"], "title": "Jacks Knob Trail"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729570", "text": "South St. Paul Municipal Airport\n\nSouth St. Paul Municipal Airport , also known as Richard E. Fleming Field or simply Fleming Field, is a city-owned public-use airport located two miles (3 km) south of the central business district of South St. Paul, a city in Dakota County, Minnesota, United States. It is named for Richard E. Fleming, a United States Marine Corps Naval Aviator during World War II who was posthumously awarded a Medal of Honor. It is the only reliever airport for Minneapolis–St. Paul International Airport that is not operated by the Metropolitan Airports Commission.\n\nAlthough most U.S. airports use the same three-letter location identifier for the FAA and IATA, South St. Paul Municipal Airport is assigned SGS by the FAA but has no designation from the IATA.\n\nSouth St. Paul Municipal-Richard E. Fleming Field covers an area of and contains one asphalt paved runway designated 16/34 which measures 4,002 x 100 ft (1,220 x 30 m). For the 12-month period ending May 31, 2016, the airport had 51,000 general aviation aircraft operations, an average of 140 per day. In January 2017, there were 401 aircraft based at this airport: 375 single-engine, 20 multi-engine and 6 helicopter.\n\n", "id": "7729570", "categories": ["Airports in Minnesota", "Transportation in Dakota County, Minnesota", "Buildings and structures in Dakota County, Minnesota"], "title": "South St. Paul Municipal Airport"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729588", "text": "Kevin Johnn\n\nKevin Johnn is American fashion designer. He was one of the original designers of \"Project Runway\" on Bravo. He also appeared on the Axis Networks reality show Club kiddies (2013-2014).\n\nHe appeared and starred on the hit Bravo Emmy nominated show\" Project Runway\". Kevin Johnn won the challenge \"Rockstar\" and had his outfit worn by Sarah Hudson in her music video, \"Girl on the Verge\" and dressed Heidi Klum for the second season of Project Runway.\n\nKevin Johnn resides in New York, New York, and is currently CFO/Creative Director of his own brand Kevin Johnn, a collection of luxury fashion sophisticated dresses and gowns. And of the dress line I Love Kevin Johnn clothing & accessories line based in New York City.\n\n", "id": "7729588", "categories": ["Living people", "Project Runway (U.S. series) participants", "American fashion designers", "The New School faculty"], "title": "Kevin Johnn"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729604", "text": "Bazlama\n\nBazlama is a single-layered, flat, circular and leavened bread with a creamy yellow colour, found in Turkey. It has an average thickness of 2 cm and diameters ranging from 10 to 25 cm.\n\nThis popular flatbread is made from wheat flour, water, salt and yeast. After mixing and two to three hours fermentation, 200- to 250-gram pieces of dough are divided, rounded, sheeted to a desired thickness and baked on a hot plate. During baking, the bread is turned over to bake the other side. After baking, it is generally consumed fresh. Shelf life of bazlama varies from several hours to a few days, depending on storage conditions.\n", "id": "7729604", "categories": ["Sourdough breads", "Flatbreads", "Turkish words and phrases", "Turkish cuisine"], "title": "Bazlama"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729605", "text": "Garner H. Tullis\n\nGarner Hugh Tullis, Sr. (April 4, 1893   February 18, 1966), was a businessman and civic leader from New Orleans, Louisiana, who formed his own brokerage firm, Tullis, Craig & Bright, and became a partner of E. F. Hutton & Co. He was also a nationally known yachtsman who won the races in 1930, 1932, and 1948 between St. Petersburg, Florida, and Havana, Cuba.\n\nTullis was born in St. Joseph, the seat of Tensas Parish, located along the Mississippi River in northeastern Louisiana, to the attorney and landowner Hugh Tullis (1857–1931) and the former Nellie Watson. His cousin, Joseph T. Curry, was a member of the Louisiana House of Representatives from Tensas Parish from 1930 to 1944.\n\nTullis arrived in New Orleans at the age of sixteen and worked his way from messenger in a cotton firm to become the principal cotton trader in the city at the New Orleans Cotton Exchange. Employed by John F. Clark & Company, he later formed his own brokerage company and then became the Hutton partner in New Orleans. He was a founder of the Louisiana and Southern Life Insurance Company (later Charter Security Life Insurance). He chaired the board of the company until his death.\n\nDuring World War II, Tullis served as a lieutenant commander in the United States Coast Guard and as commander of the Port of Orleans Security Volunteer Force.\n\nTullis married the former Mary Lee Brown on October 6, 1916. Their children were Malcolm McCullough Tullis (born 1917), Mary Lee Tullis (born 1919), Garner Hugh Tullis, Jr. (1923–1930), and Eli Watson Tullis (born 1928).\n\nIn 1939, Tullis purchased a historic home in Biloxi, Mississippi, for use as a summer home. It subsequently became known as the Tullis-Toledano Manor. After its sale to the city of Biloxi in 1975, it became a popular museum and local attraction. Many young couples were married on the beautiful grounds of the manor. It was completely destroyed by Hurricane Katrina on August 29, 2005.\n\nTullis \"ruled\" New Orleans as Rex, King of Carnival in 1935. His interest in yachts led to his becoming the commodore of the Southern Yacht Club. He died while cruising off the Gulf of Mexico near Apalachicola, Florida, aboard his yacht \"Windjammer\".\n\n\"Garner H. Tullis\", \"A Dictionary of Louisiana Biography\", Vol. 2 (1988), p. 800\n\n", "id": "7729605", "categories": ["1893 births", "1966 deaths", "People from St. Joseph, Louisiana", "Businesspeople from New Orleans", "United States Coast Guard officers", "United States Coast Guard personnel of World War II", "American brokers"], "title": "Garner H. Tullis"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729606", "text": "One Unit\n\nThe One Unit () was a geopolitical program launched by the government of Pakistan led by then-Prime Minister Muhammad Ali Bogra on 22 November 1954. The program was believed to be enacted after the government faced difficulty of administrating the two unequal polities of Pakistan separated from each other by more than a thousand miles. To diminish the differences between the two regions, the program merged the Four Provinces of West Pakistan into a single province as was the case with East Pakistan (now Bangladesh).\n\nPakistani scholars and researchers maintain that the One Unit program was viewed as a counterbalance against the political and population domination of the ethnic Bengali population of East Pakistan. The One Unit program was met with great resistance and grievances from the Four Provinces since its establishment, and it remained in effect until 1970. Finally, President General Yahya Khan imposed Legal Framework Order No. 1970 to end the One Unit program and reinstate the provisional status of the Four Provinces as of August 1947.\n\nAlthough Pakistan was conceived by philosopher Sir Muhammad Iqbal in 1930 (uniting the four states of the northwestern British Indian Empire), the country was established on 14 August 1947, directly resulting from the Pakistan Movement led by Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Since then, the country had been without a consolidated written constitution, and all Pakistan's state affairs had been run under constitutional acts of the British Indian Empire, such as the Government of India Act 1935 and the Indian Independence Act 1947. \n\nThe Government had prolonged difficulty in administrating East Bengal, with its border with Eastern India, and the four provinces, which border Western India, Iran, China, and Afghanistan.\n\nOne Unit was conceived by then-Governor-General Malik Ghulam and drafting was completed by then-chief Minister Mumtaz Ali Doltana. The first official announcement about it was made on 22 November 1954. Rationalizing the framework, Bogra enumerated the benefits of having one unit or province: \"There will be no Bengalis, no Punjabis, no Sindhis, no Pathans, no Balochis, no Bahawalpuris, no Khairpuris. The disappearance of these groups will strengthen the integrity of Pakistan.\" The Prime Minister Chaudhry Muhammad Ali implemented the framework of the One Unit program on 14 October 1955 after Pakistan National Assembly passed a bill merging all of West Pakistan into a single province on 30 September 1955. \n\n1. It would end the curse of provincial prejudices.\n\n2. It would allow the development of backward areas.\n\n3. It would reduce administrative expenses.\n\n4. It would make it easier to draw up a new constitution.\n\n5. It would give East and West Pakistan maximum autonomy.\n\nAfter the 1954 general election, the four provinces and Tribal Areas were merged in the western wing. The province was composed of twelve divisions and the provincial capital was established at Lahore. The province of East Bengal (including Sylhet and the Hill Tracts) was renamed East Pakistan with the provincial capital at Dacca. The federal government moved the country's capital in 1958 from Karachi to Rawalpindi (serving as provisional capital until Islamabad was ready), while the federal legislature moved to Dacca.\n\nWest Pakistan formed a single and united political entity but with marked linguistic and ethnic distinctions. The One Unit policy was regarded as an administrative reform that would reduce expenditure and help eliminate ethnic and parochial prejudices. However, with the military coup of 1958, trouble loomed for the province when the office of Chief Minister was abolished and the President claimed executive power over West Pakistan. The province of West Pakistan was dissolved on 1 July 1970 by President General Yahya Khan.\n\n", "id": "7729606", "categories": ["West Pakistan", "Political terminology in Pakistan", "Political history of Pakistan"], "title": "One Unit"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729614", "text": "Will Ray\n\nWill Ray (born 1950 in Richmond, Virginia) is a long-time American session guitarist and current member of the Hellecasters. Ray has also released a number of solo albums. He is considered an influential player of the Fender Telecaster line of guitars. Fender made two Will Ray signature models in the late 1990s: the Jazz-a-Caster and the Mojo-Tele. G&L is now offering a Will Ray signature model guitar and a less expensive version within their lower cost brand, Tribute by G&L.\nIn July 2005 Ray moved to North Carolina where he built a new state of the art recording studio for production projects.\n\nIn September 2009, Ray began hosting a weekly music jam in Fletcher, NC at The Feed and Seed.\nThe Tuesday night \"Will Ray Mountain Jam\" encourages local musicians, singer/songwriters to sign up and play with the house band (Will Ray and The Son's of Ralph).\n\n", "id": "7729614", "categories": ["1950 births", "American session musicians", "Living people", "American rock guitarists", "American male guitarists", "The Hellecasters members", "20th-century American guitarists", "20th-century male musicians"], "title": "Will Ray"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729619", "text": "Jacks Knob\n\nJacks Knob is a mountain located on the border of Towns County and Union County, Georgia, with a peak elevation of 3,813 feet. The Appalachian Trail crosses the southern flank of the mountain and Jacks Knob Trail ends here at an intersection with the Appalachian Trail. Jacks Knob is in the Mark Trail Wilderness of the Chattahoochee National Forest.\n\nThe source of the Chattahoochee River is located in Jacks Gap at the southeastern foot of Jacks Knob, in the very southeastern corner of Union County.\n\n", "id": "7729619", "categories": ["Mountains of Georgia (U.S. state)", "Mountains of Towns County, Georgia", "Mountains of Union County, Georgia"], "title": "Jacks Knob"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729622", "text": "Marcellus of Tangier\n\nSaint Marcellus of Tangier or Saint Marcellus the Centurion () (c. mid 3rd century – 298 AD) is venerated as a Martyr Saint by the Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox Church. His feast day is celebrated on October 30.\n\nMarcellus was said to have been a centurion stationed at Tingis (modern-day Tangiers) who refused to participate in the general birthday celebrations of the Emperor Maximian, which would have entailed sacrifice to the Roman gods. Throwing off his military belt, weapons, and vine staff (the insignia of his rank). Marcellus was soon brought before a judge named Fortunatus. The judge remanded the saint to lay his case before Maximian and Constantius; the latter was friendly to Christians. However, Marcellus was taken to the deputy Praetorian prefect Aurelius Agricolanus instead. Marcellus pleaded guilty to repudiating his allegiance to an earthly leader.\n\nMarcellus was martyred with a sword by the deputy Praetorian prefect.\n\nAfterwards, it is said that the official shorthand writer, a man named Saint Cassian, was so angry at the sentence that he refused to record the court proceedings and was martyred as well.\n\nSt Marcellus' relics were later brought to and enshrined at León, and he became a patron saint of the city. The Plaza de San Marcelo in this city is named for him. The church of San Marcelo dates from the 10th century.\n\nAn alternate version of his legend states that he was a centurion of the Legio VII Gemina Pia Felix, and was born in what is now León in the middle of the third century. This version, however, has been shown to be largely apocryphal. The story relates that Marcellus lived close to the city walls. During the birthday celebrations for the Emperor Maximian, in July 298, Marcellus publicly demonstrated his Christian faith by throwing down the insignia of his rank, and proclaimed that he only venerated one God. He was then sent to Tangiers to be judged by the vice-prefect (vicar), Agricolanus. He was condemned to death and decapitated on October 29, 298, together with his wife Nona and his twelve sons (Claudius, Lupercus, Victorius, Facundus, Primitivus, Servandus, Germanus, Faustus, Januarius, and Martial). Included in this group of sons are the martyrs Emeterius and Celedonius, though their connection to Marcellus is probably apocryphal. Servandus and Germanus (or Cermanus) were venerated separately at Cadiz, and their association with Marcellus is also apocryphal.\n\nSaints Claudius, Lupercus or Lupercio, and Victorius or Victoricus (d. c. 300) are said to have been the sons of St Marcellus. They were said to have been martyred at León, Spain, during the reign of the Emperor Diocletian. Their relationship to Marcellus is probably apocryphal, though it was accepted in subsequent breviaries and hagiographies as well as the \"Roman Martyrology\", which placed all four saints under October 30. However, it is quite possible that Claudius, Lupercus, and Victorius were soldiers of Spanish origin who were killed at León, as tradition states. Many churches in Spain were dedicated to them, including the ancient Benedictine abbey of San Claudio, in Galicia.\nThe town of San Claudio, near Oviedo, takes its name from this group of martyrs.\n\nTheir relics were translated several times in succeeding centuries. King Ferdinand I of Castile transported some of their relics to the church of San Isidoro in León. In 1173, the relics were translated to a new church dedicated to the three martyrs. This church was destroyed in 1834 and the relics were moved to the church of San Marcelo, dedicated to their presumed father. Their feast day is celebrated in Spain and Portugal on October 30.\n\nVictorius or Victoricus should not be confused with the French saint of the same name. Another Lupercus or Luperculus was a bishop of Eauze who was venerated as a martyr, and sometimes identified as an uncle of the Spanish saint Saint Engratia.\n\n\n", "id": "7729622", "categories": ["Mauretania Tingitana", "People from Tangier", "Groups of Christian martyrs of the Roman era", "3rd-century births", "3rd-century Christian martyrs", "Roman saints from Africa (continent)", "Christianity in Morocco", "298 deaths"], "title": "Marcellus of Tangier"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729640", "text": "Kim Won-yong\n\nKim Won-yong (1922–1993) was a South Korean archaeologist and art historian. Noted in the discipline of Korean archaeology and ancient art history (Yoon 2006), he was one of the first people recognized as an archaeologist in Korea to receive a Doctor of Philosophy degree.\n\nKim graduated from New York University in 1959 and was known in the latter part of his career as the \"Doyen of Korean Archaeology\" (Nelson 1995). He, along with others such as Kim Jeong-hak (Korea University), Kim Jae-won (Seoul National University), Kim Jung-bae (Korea University), Kim Jong-gi, Son Bo-gi (Yonsei University), and Lee Eun-chang are pioneers of modern Korean academia who were influenced not only by the discipline of archaeology but history, art history, architecture, and Korean philosophy.\n\nKim began his studies at Keijō Imperial University, the precursor of Seoul National University (SNU), during the Japanese colonization of Korea (1905 - 1945), and graduated from there with a bachelor's degree in 1945. He wrote his PhD thesis on Silla ceramics, and after receiving his New York University (NYU) PhD, Kim returned to South Korea. He started as a professor at SNU in 1961 and began a long and influential career there, with the exception of 1970-1971 when he served as the director of the National Museum of Korea. Kim was a founding member of the Department of Archaeology and Ancient Art History at SNU. In South Korea, the academic juxtaposition of archaeology and ancient art history is partly a reflection of the status of such studies in traditional Korean and Northeast Asian culture. However, the mixing of the two is also a reflection of the combination of education that Kim Won-yong received at Keijō Imperial University and NYU. The Department of Ancient Art History and Archaeology at SNU became the main model for the establishment of similar departments at national universities across South Korea.\n\nIt is difficult to overstate the importance of Kim's contributions in Korean archaeology. Kim Won-yong did research on all aspects and all periods of Korean prehistory and early history, and can be considered as the 'Father of Korean Archaeology'. However, Kim will be remembered for laying the foundation of academic archaeology, symbolized by the publication in 1973 of his seminal work, \"Hanguk Gogohak Gaeseol\" [Introduction to Korean Archaeology]. This influential book was reprinted 20 times between 1973 and 1996 and remains a \"must\" on the reading list of all students of Korean prehistory and early history. Kim published hundreds of articles and excavation reports over his career in Korean, English, and Japanese. He also trained many generations of the leading archaeologists in Korea.\n\nKim Won-yong realized the importance of Korean ancient and prehistoric cultural heritage, and served as a Senior Committee member of the National Cultural Heritage Committee of Korea from 1958 to 1992. He was a great proponent of academic exchange with western archaeology, and as such did research with archaeologists such as Richard J. Pearson. Kim was also a vocal critic of the New Archaeology (Processualism) from its inception in the early 1960s, publishing several key letters to the editor in American Antiquity that were critical of the 'new' theoretical movement and defended the 'old guard' of functional and cultural historical archaeology.\n\nKim Won-yong was also an artist. He painted traditional monochromatic ink pieces, multi-coloured ink paintings, and whimsical self-portraits. Kim took the \"nom-de-plume\" \"Sambul\" (Hanja: 三佛) to sign his paintings. A true intellectual giant on the vanguard of the rebirth of the Republic of Korea in the wake of the crippling Japanese occupation of 1910 - 1945 and the devastating war of 1950 - 1953, Sambul Kim Won-yong died of cancer on November 14, 1993.\n\n\nA detailed bibliography of Kim Won-yong's works is available in Sarah M. Nelson's \"The Archaeology of Korea\", Cambridge University Press, New York, 1993.\n\n\n", "id": "7729640", "categories": ["South Korean expatriates in the United States", "South Korean archaeologists", "1993 deaths", "New York University alumni", "Asian archaeology", "1922 births"], "title": "Kim Won-yong"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729649", "text": "Screaming Mimi\n\nScreaming Mimi may refer to:\n\n\n\n", "id": "7729649", "categories": [], "title": "Screaming Mimi"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729653", "text": "Deutscher Tourenwagen Cup\n\nThe Deutsche Tourenwagen Cup (formerly known as ADAC Procar Series) is a yearly motorsport series in Germany and some surrounding countries. The series has been running since 1995.\n\nCurrently the DTC is the highest level of German motorsport that runs cars to the Super 2000 regulations used in World Touring Car Championship (WTCC). To fill up the grid, and to promote new, young drivers the few Super 2000 cars are joined by the less advanced Division 2 and 3 series (the Super 2000 cars being called Division 1), bringing up the total number of starting drivers to around 20 to 25. Division 1 also allows cars of BTCC-spec – the 2005 champion Mathias Schläppi won in a BTCC-built MG ZS.\n\nAs of 2016 there are 3 different classes in the DTC\n\nThe DTC have existed since 1995 as a championship for Super Production cars under the name DTC (Deutsche Tourenwagen Challenge). Ford and Hotfiel Sport had an important presence in the early and middle parts of the history of the series with Thomas Klenke winning the championship in 2002. The series was called the DMSB Produktionswagen Meisterschaft in 2004 and raced in two rounds of the European Touring Car Championship.\n\nThe 2005 season saw the introduction of Super 2000 rules for Division 1 and the series changed its name to the DMSB Produktionswagen Meisterschaft. Mathias Schläppi in a MG ZS for Maurer Motorsport was the undisputed champion, winning 12 out of 16 races. 2006 saw Maurer Motorsport swapping their MG's for Chevrolet's and Mathias Schläppi for ex-BTCC driver Vincent Radermecker. Schläppi instead drove for the new TFS-Yaco team running Toyota Corollas. Vincent Radermecker would win Maurer's second title while Schläppi was second in the championship.\n\nWhile arguably having some talented drivers and teams such as Radermecker, Schläppi, Maurer Motorsport and so on the DTC is very minor compared to the immensely popular DTM series.\n\n", "id": "7729653", "categories": ["Auto racing series in Germany", "Touring car racing series", "ADAC Procar Series"], "title": "Deutscher Tourenwagen Cup"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729654", "text": "The Cry of the Wolf\n\nThe Cry of the Wolf is a novel for children or young adults, written by Melvin Burgess and published by Andersen Press in 1990 (). Set on the island of Great Britain, it features a grey wolf raised partly by humans after learning only a little from its mother before her death. --and the hunter who killed her, who is obsessed with personally eliminating the species from the wild.\n\n\"The Cry of the Wolf\" was Burgess's first novel. He was a highly commended runner up for the annual Carnegie Medal from the Library Association, recognising the year's best children's book by a British subject.\n\nTambourine Books published the first United States edition in 1992. Translations have been published in Danish, Norwegian, French, Spanish, Lithuanian and Slovenian languages, at least.\n\nThe book tells the story of a man who tries to kill the last wild wolves in England, and the wolf, raised among humans, who will try to strike back.\nWhat if there were still wolves in England and only a few people knew it? What if one of those people was an obsessive, half-mad, extremely able hunter who was determined to have the honour of killing the last wolf in England? We are with the last wolf cubs as they are born short minutes before the slaughter begins. The female survives, wounded by The Hunter, only long enough to teach her sole surviving cub a few skills before she too is killed by the man. The cub, Greycub, is reared by Ben and his family and, being a social animal, waits in vain for the sound or scent of a remaining wolf. This is not to be for he is the last wolf in England. Regretfully leaving his human friends, he roams for years searching for sign of his species. In a bizarre but very fitting climax to the story, Greycub becomes the hunter and The Hunter knows, too late, the feeling of the prey.\n\nThis is a raw and brutal book and, to be sure, a cautionary tale about extinction. However, the focus is on obsession verging on madness. Ben, the boy who rears Greycub, becomes an innocent betrayer of the wolves for it is he who first alerts The Hunter to the presence of the wolf pack. The book reads like non-fiction with an almost detached manner but the brutality is so compelling that detachment on the part of the reader is nearly impossible. In fact, the feelings of readers would make for a fascinating discussion. At which point did they become engaged? Did they ever feel any sympathy for The Hunter? How did the author do that? Also, there is some anthropomorphism present. Could Burgess have done the book without it?\n\nGreycub – Son of Silver and Conna. Main character of the story, he grows up to live alone in Scotland where he kills his enemy, the Hunter.\n\nSilver – Greycub's mother. Her original mate was killed by the Hunter, she then mated with Conna. She is described as being cunning and intelligent.\n\nConna – Father to Greycub, second mate to Silver. He is a skilled hunter, killed just before Silver.\n\nJenny – The Hunter's trustful hunting dog, she had an accident with a hyena, making one of her front legs smaller than the other. Killed by the Hunter for betraying him.\n\nGoldface – Silver's original mate, the first kill of the Hunter.\n\nCacoo – Conna's cousin. Killed by the hunter.\n\nBrindles – An old wolf in Silver's pack. Killed by the Hunter.\n\nClapper – A farm dog. Killed by the Hunter when he kidnaps Greycub.\n\nBell – Farm dog. Killed by the Hunter while keeping watch with Clapper.\n\nBen Tilley – A nice boy who tries to help Greycub for most of his life after letting slip to the hunter that there are still wild wolves in England.\n\nThe Hunter – The evil man of the story, he is driven into a madness to kill the last wolves. He is killed by Greycub.\n\nJohn Tilley – Ben's father and farmer at High Pond Farm.\n\nMargaret Tilley – Ben's mother. She is somewhat of a clean person but cares for the wolves and her family.\n\nThe Breeder – The one who weans Greycub and the only one, besides Ben, that Greycub really respected. He kept over forty deerhounds in his kennels.\n\n", "id": "7729654", "categories": ["British children's novels", "Fictional wolves", "Novels set in the United Kingdom", "Novels by Melvin Burgess", "Children's novels about animals", "1990 British novels"], "title": "The Cry of the Wolf"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729660", "text": "ScotRail (National Express)\n\nScotRail was a train operating company in Scotland owned by National Express that operated the ScotRail franchise from March 1997 until October 2004. Prior to March 1997 ScotRail (British Rail) ran the trains and after October 2004 First ScotRail ran them.\n\nScotRail operated all passenger train services in Scotland, with the exception of the Arriva Trains Northern, GNER, Virgin CrossCountry and Virgin Trains West Coast services from England. ScotRail operated services into England with services to Carlisle and Newcastle, and the Caledonian Sleeper services between Scotland and London.\n\nScotRail inherited a fleet of Class 101, Class 117 Class 150, Class 156, Class 158, Class 303, Class 305, Class 314, Class 318 and Class 320s from British Rail as well as Mark 2 carriages and Mark 3 sleepers for use on the Caledonian Sleepers and on some other passenger services.\n\nScotRail contracted English Welsh & Scottish to haul the Caledonian Sleeper services to London Euston. Class 90s were used south of Edinburgh and Glasgow Central with Class 37s used on the portion to Fort William and Class 47s to Aberdeen and Inverness. From June 2001, Class 67s began to take over. A dedicated pool was created due to the need to fit cast steel brakes.\n\nScotRail ordered 55 three-carriage Class 170 \"Turbostars\" to replace locomotive hauled stock and 40 three-carriage Class 334 \"Junipers\" to replace Class 303s.\n\nIn 2000, two Class 150s were transferred to Arriva Trains Northern. Class 158s were also transferred, four going to Arriva Trains Northern and two to Wessex Trains. The Class 101, Class 303 and Class 305s were all withdrawn.\n\nIn December 2001, five Class 322s were sublet from West Anglia Great Northern, they were returned in March 2004. To replace them ex Virgin West Coast Mark 3s were leased, being hauled by EWS Class 90s on North Berwick Line services.\n\nScotRail's fleet was maintained at Haymarket, Glasgow Shields Road and Inverness depots.\n\nIn July 2003, the Scottish Executive and the Strategic Rail Authority announced Arriva, FirstGroup and National Express had been shortlisted to bid for the new franchise. In June 2004, the franchise was awarded to FirstGroup, with the services operated by ScotRail transferring to First ScotRail on 17 October 2004.\n\n", "id": "7729660", "categories": ["1997 establishments in Scotland", "National Express companies", "Railway companies disestablished in 2004", "Railway companies established in 1997", "Rail transport in Scotland", "Defunct train operating companies", "Railway companies of Scotland"], "title": "ScotRail (National Express)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729679", "text": "Robbie Horgan\n\nRobbie Horgan (born 7 June 1968) is an Irish former professional footballer who played as a goalkeeper.\n\nBorn in Dublin, Horgan started his career at Shamrock Rovers, making his League of Ireland debut on 14 April 1987. He was the last goalkeeper to play for Shamrock Rovers at Glenmalure Park (Milltown) in a game that decided the League of Ireland B Division title in 1987.\n\nHe then moved to Drogheda United in 1988 making his debut on 4 September in a 2-1 home win over Bray Wanderers. He kept 12 clean sheets in 26 league games as Drogheda won the League of Ireland First Division title in 1989. In the 1990/1991 season Horgan kept 15 clean sheets as Drogheda again won the First Division.\n\nAfter four and a half years at United Park he then moved to Shelbourne in November 1992. He then signed back for Rovers in July 1994 where he spent another eight years. Horgan played in 2 European games for Shamrock Rovers against Djurgårdens IF in the 2002–03 UEFA Cup.\n\nHe made his last League of Ireland appearance in the last game of the 2007 League of Ireland season.\n\nHorgan was the goalkeeping coach at Sporting Fingal until they went out of business. Horgan made history in August 2009 when he became the only player to have played at Milltown and Tallaght Stadium.\n\nHe went to Drogheda United in February 2011, as an assistant to Mick Cooke. Drogheda won the League of Ireland Cup in 2012.\n\nCooke left Drogheda in November 2013 and Horgan was confirmed as his replacement shortly afterwards.\n\n\n\n\"Irish Football Handbook\" by Dave Galvin & Gerry Desmond ()\n", "id": "7729679", "categories": ["1968 births", "Association footballers from County Dublin", "Drogheda United F.C. players", "Association football goalkeepers", "Monaghan United F.C. players", "Dublin City F.C. players", "Living people", "Shelbourne F.C. players", "Republic of Ireland association footballers", "Shamrock Rovers F.C. players", "St Patrick's Athletic F.C. players"], "title": "Robbie Horgan"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729684", "text": "ACC0\n\nACC, sometimes called ACC, is a class of computational models and problems defined in circuit complexity, a field of theoretical computer science. The class is defined by augmenting the class AC of constant-depth \"alternating circuits\" with the ability to count; the acronym ACC stands for \"AC with counters\". Specifically, a problem belongs to ACC if it can be solved by polynomial-size, constant-depth circuits of unbounded fan-in gates, including gates that count modulo a fixed integer. ACC corresponds to computation in any solvable monoid. The class is very well studied in theoretical computer science because of the algebraic connections and because it is one of the largest concrete computational models for which computational impossibility results, so-called circuit lower bounds, can be proved.\n\nInformally, ACC models the class of computations realised by Boolean circuits of constant depth and polynomial size, where the circuit gates includes \"modular counting gates\" that compute the number of true inputs modulo some fixed constant.\n\nMore formally, a language belongs to AC[\"m\"] if it can be computed by a family of circuits \"C\", \"C\", ..., where \"C\" takes \"n\" inputs, the depth of every circuit is constant, the size of \"C\" is a polynomial function of \"n\", and the circuit uses the following gates: AND gates and OR gates of unbounded fan-in, computing the conjunction and disjunction of their inputs; NOT gates computing the negation of their single input; and unbounded fan-in MOD-\"m\" gates, which compute 1 if the number of input 1s is a multiple of \"m\". A language belongs to ACC if it belongs to AC[\"m\"] for some \"m\".\n\nIn some texts, ACC refers to a hierarchy of circuit classes with ACC at its lowest level, where the circuits in ACC have depth O(log\"n\") and polynomial size.\n\nThe class ACC can also be defined in terms of computations of nonuniform deterministic finite automata (NUDFA) over monoids. In this framework, the input is interpreted as elements from a fixed monoid, and the input is accepted if the product of the input elements belongs to a given list of monoid elements. The class ACC is the family of languages accepted by a NUDFA over some monoid that does not contain an unsolvable group as a subsemigroup.\n\nThe class ACC includes AC. This inclusion is strict, because a single MOD-2 gate computes the parity function, which is known to be impossible to compute in AC. More generally, the function MOD can not be computed in AC[\"p\"] for prime \"p\" unless \"m\" is a power of \"p\".\n\nThe class ACC is included in TC. It is conjectured that ACC is unable to compute the majority function of its inputs (i.e. the inclusion in TC is strict), but this remains unresolved as of July 2018.\n\nEvery problem in ACC can be solved by circuits of depth 2, with AND gates of polylogarithmic fan-in at the inputs, connected to a single gate computing a symmetric function. These circuits are called SYM-circuits. The proof follows ideas of the proof of Toda's theorem.\n\nIt is known that computing the permanent is impossible for logtime-uniform ACC circuits, which implies that the complexity class PP is not contained in logtime-uniform ACC.\n\n", "id": "7729684", "categories": ["Circuit complexity"], "title": "ACC0"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729698", "text": "Lowood, Queensland\n\nLowood is a town and locality in the Somerset Region in south-east Queensland, Australia. The town is on the Brisbane River, west of the state capital, Brisbane, and north of Ipswich. In the 2011 census, Lowood had a population of 3,336 people.\n\nLowood was established as the first terminus of the Brisbane Valley branch railway in 1884 and the town grew from the subdivision around the new station. The name is derived from the \"low woods\" of brigalow in the Lowood area, as opposed to the taller trees elsewhere in the Brisbane Valley. Lowood Post Office opened on 15 October 1888 (a receiving office had been open from 1884).\n\nThe Lowood public library opened in 2000.\nAt the 2006 census, Lowood had a population of 1,010.\n\nDue to its proximity to Brisbane and Ipswich, Lowood is becoming an area for hobby farmers and residential commuters. Nearby Lake Wivenhoe is a popular place for activities such as boating and fishing.\n\nLowood has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nDuring World War II, an airfield called Lowood, which was actually located at Mount Tarampa, was the site of a military airfield operated by the Royal Australian Air Force. No. 71 Squadron operated from the airfield during 1943, conducting coastal patrol and naval convoy escort missions. After the war, the airfield was converted into a motor-racing circuit, the Lowood Airfield Circuit, and operated for 20 years, the highlight hosting the 1960 Australian Grand Prix. The airfield no longer exists, but a small memorial marks its previous location.\n\nFollowing the withdrawal of the railmotor service to Toogoolawah in 1989, a substitute bus service to Ipswich was introduced by Queensland Rail (QR). Two services are in the morning and return services are in the late afternoon. Time tables are available from QR.\n\nThe Somerset Regional Council operates a public library at the corner of Michel and Main Streets.\n\nThe Lowood branch of the Queensland Country Women's Association meets at 106 Main Street.\n\n\n", "id": "7729698", "categories": ["Lowood, Queensland", "Suburbs of Somerset Region", "1872 establishments in Australia", "Towns in Queensland", "Populated places established in 1872"], "title": "Lowood, Queensland"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729709", "text": "Osa Guobadia\n\nOsa Guobadia (born 1 June 1987), best known by his nickname Ice Cream, is a Nigerian football player. His position is midfielder and plays for Maltese club Mosta F.C..\n\nAfter playing with SV Pasching in the Austrian Bundesliga, Guobadia had short spells in other Austrian clubs, namely FC Wels, SC Schwanenstadt and ASV St. Marienkirchen. In summer 2008 he moved to Macedonia signing with Macedonian First League side FK Makedonija Gjorče Petrov. After two seasons he returned to Nigeria playing one year with Kaduna United F.C. in the Nigeria Premier League, before returning to Macedonia this time to play with another top flight side, FK Vardar.\n\nFK Makedonija GP\n\nFK Vardar\n\n", "id": "7729709", "categories": ["FK Vardar players", "Nigerian footballers", "Austrian Football Bundesliga players", "Expatriate footballers in Austria", "Expatriate footballers in Israel", "Nigerian expatriate footballers", "Living people", "Sportspeople from Benin City", "Beitar Jerusalem F.C. players", "Kaduna United F.C. players", "Israeli Premier League players", "FC Juniors OÖ players", "Association football midfielders", "Expatriate footballers in Malta", "Expatriate footballers in North Macedonia", "FK Makedonija Gjorče Petrov players", "1987 births"], "title": "Osa Guobadia"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729725", "text": "Gulzar Alam\n\nGulzar Alam (born 14 October 1959, in Peshawar) is a Pashto singer with a fan base from Afghanistan to Pakistan and among Pashtoons around the world.\nCurrently living with family in kabul city.\n\nGulzar Alam worked in Pakistan Air force for sometime. He left singing due to bad law and order situation in the region. \n\nIn January 2003, Gulzar was arrested while performing at a private wedding, he was accused of drinking alcohol and rowdy behaviour but was later released, Gulzar said he was \"humiliated\" by this, however a more serious event took place in April of that year when 27 police officers forced entry to his home and arrested this three sons and a brother. He stopped singing after receiving anonymous letters warning of the consequences of singing in public and started selling property instead, however he eventually fled to Karachi.\n\nHowever following the elections of February 2008 the secular nationalist Awami National Party replaced the Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal and they not only opened Nashtar Hall for cultural activities but invited Gulzar Alam back to singing. Gulzar Alam accepted the invitation wholeheartedly and started his singing career again. In April 2008, Peshawar's Nishtar Hall was the city’s only auditorium for promoting cultural activities, had reopened after five years of closure due to the policies of the previous government - Gulzar was one the artists who performed at the reopening.\n\nMany of his albums can still be found in Pakistani music stores.\n", "id": "7729725", "categories": ["Pashtun people", "1959 births", "Pashto-language singers", "Pakistani male singers", "Living people"], "title": "Gulzar Alam"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729729", "text": "Die Jüdin von Toledo\n\n\"This article describes the book by Lion Feuchtwanger. For the play by Franz Grillparzer, see The Jewess of Toledo.\"\n\nDie Jüdin von Toledo is a 1955 novel by German-Jewish writer Lion Feuchtwanger. The story focuses on the \"Golden Age\" of learning in medieval Spain. The novel also describes the affair of Alfonso VIII with the Jewish Raquel in Toledo. In Lion Feuchtwanger's prologue to the story, he mentions that the ballad was originally written by Alfonso X of Castile in regards to his Great-Grandfather (Alfonso VIII).\n", "id": "7729729", "categories": ["Jews and Judaism in Spain", "German historical novels", "1955 German novels", "Novels set in Spain"], "title": "Die Jüdin von Toledo"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729746", "text": "Give a Boy a Gun\n\nGive a Boy a Gun is an epistolary novel for young adults by Todd Strasser, first published in 2000. The novel describes the events and social circumstances that lead up to, and form the aftermath of, a fictional school shooting. The story is presented in the form of segments of transcribed post-incident interviews with students, parents, teachers, and community members, compiled by Denise Shipley, a journalism student who is the stepsister of one of the shooters. The interviews provide a variety of viewpoints on the incident – some sympathetic, others hostile. Interspersed through the book are footnotes providing statistical information about guns and gun violence.\nThe plot has some similarities to the real-life Columbine High School massacre of April 20, 1999, although Strasser began research on the book before the Columbine shooting. The book was the first book relating to school shootings published after Columbine. \n\nBrendan Lawlor and Gary Searle are students at Middletown High School. Gary has lived in town since second grade, while Brendan is a new arrival. The two quickly become friends. They are subjected to verbal and physical bullying by football players at Middletown, which teachers and parents fail to notice, downplay, or outright ignore. \n\nAs time passes, both boys become darker and angrier, experimenting with alcohol and drugs, becoming obsessive about violent video games, and withdrawing from most social activities. Eventually the boys begin to obsess over the possibility of acting on their violent impulses. Gary experiments with developing a powerful homemade bomb. Gary and Brendan steal semi-automatic guns from a neighbour. Meanwhile, students are excited about an upcoming dance to be held in the school's gym. \n\nOn the night of the dance, Brendan leaves a cryptic message for his friend Emily, warning her not to attend because there will be trouble. Masked, Brendan and Gary enter the gym just after the dance begins. They shoot out the lights before restraining the attendees with cable ties. Gary booby-traps the doors with bombs so they will explode if anyone tries to open them. \n\nThe pair approach the football team's quarterback, Sam, who has been one of their main tormentors. After some debate, they decide to shoot out his kneecaps so he will be unable to play football ever again. Gary and Brendan fire their guns randomly around the gym, scaring students and injuring others. Another football player, Dustin, manages to get free and unties some others. Gary commits suicide while Brendan is beaten into a coma by the football players. Brendan suffers irreversible brain damage from the beating and those responsible are arrested and put on trial for attempted murder. \n\nThe book ends with Denise Shipley, Gary's stepsister, wondering if Gary knew if there were other options besides violence. She swears she will always treat others with respect and teach others to do the same. She also shares her belief that semi-automatic weapons should be outlawed and handguns should be only in the hands of law enforcement.\n\n", "id": "7729746", "categories": ["American crime novels", "Novels set in schools", "Novels based on actual events", "Novels about bullying", "Works about the Columbine High School massacre", "Novels about revenge", "2000 American novels"], "title": "Give a Boy a Gun"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729757", "text": "Coat of arms of Bradford\n\nThe Coat of arms of Bradford City Council was granted in 1976. The present City of Bradford was created in 1974 by the Local Government Act 1972 and is one of five metropolitan boroughs of West Yorkshire. The 1976 arms are based on those of its predecessor, the county borough of Bradford.\nThe red and blue \"\"per pale\"\" division of the shield, gold engrailed chevron and buglehorns were taken directly from the county borough's arms. The buglehorns refer to the service by which the manor of Bradford was granted by John of Gaunt to John Northrop of Manningham: upon the blowing of a horn on St Martin's day Manningham was to wait on John and his heirs and conduct them safely to Pontefract Castle. In the county borough's arms there were three horns: one has been replaced by a golden fleece. This is an emblem of the woollen industry and was found in the arms or devices of five urban districts included in the metropolitan borough in 1974. On the chevron is an heraldic fountain from the arms of borough of Keighley and Ilkley urban district.\nA \"bordure\" or border has been added to the shield, on which are placed eleven white roses, representing the eleven Yorkshire councils combined in 1974.\n\nThe crest features a boar's head without a tongue. This illustrates the legend of the boar of Cliffe Wood.\n\nThe supporters are a gold stag from the arms of the Cavendish family, associated with Keighley; and an angora goat, another emblem of the woollen industry.\n\nThe motto is \"Progress, Industry, Humanity\".\n\nThe formal description of the arms, or blazon, is:\n\n\"For the arms: Per pale gules and azure on a chevron engrailed between in chief two hunting horns and in base a fleece Or a fountain all within a bordure gobony gules and argent in the gules eleven roses argent barbed and seeded proper; and for the crest: A mural crown per pale gules and azure thereon a boar's head couped at the neck sans tongue erased Or; and for the supporters: To the dexter a stag Or gorged with acollar azure charged with roses argent barbed and seeded proper and to the sinister an angora goat argent armed Or gorged with a collar gules charged with roses argent barbed and seeded proper, the whole upon a Compartment of rocky moorland proper. Badge: A mural crown per pale gules and azure thereon a rose argent barbed and seeded proper on the crown a boar's head couped at the neck sans tongue erased Or.\"\n\n", "id": "7729757", "categories": ["Coats of arms with boars", "Municipal coats of arms in West Yorkshire", "Coats of arms with horns (instrument)", "Coats of arms with roses", "Coats of arms of metropolitan district councils of England", "Coats of arms with deer", "City of Bradford", "Coats of arms with the Golden Fleece"], "title": "Coat of arms of Bradford"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729763", "text": "Immaculata High School (Marrero, Louisiana)\n\nImmaculata High School, was a Catholic high school in Marrero, Louisiana.\n\nImmaculata High School opened in 1956 as a part of Immaculate Conception Parish. Immaculata answered a growing need for Catholic secondary education on the Westbank. Located in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New Orleans, the School Sisters of Notre Dame served Immaculata from its inception until May 1979. In August 1979, the Salesian Sisters came to Immaculata. The founding pastor, Msgr. Paul Gaudin, envisioned a girls' school. At the time, however, the absence of a boys' Catholic High School in the area prompted parents to seek admission also for their sons.\n\nOn September 10, 1956, Immaculata High School opened its doors to 50 freshmen. In 1960, 24 students comprised the first graduating class; the total enrollment was 188 in that year. Immaculata continued as a co-ed school until the opening of Archbishop Shaw High School in 1963.\n\nAfter the 2006-2007 school year, Immaculata High School and Archbishop Blenk High School, both located on the West Bank, are supposed to merge. The new school will be called The Academy of Our Lady. Alumni, parents of students, and students have protest against this merge. One group of concerned parents, students and alumni have created a website called Stop The Merger to pass along information in the hope of preventing the merge of Archbishop Blenk and Immaculata. https://web.archive.org/web/20070929001525/http://www.stopthemerger.net/ The new school, like Immaculata, will be run by the Salesian Sisters.\n\nArchdiocese Of New Orleans Apr 27, 2007\n\n", "id": "7729763", "categories": ["Educational institutions disestablished in 2007", "Schools in Jefferson Parish, Louisiana", "Former high schools in Louisiana", "1956 establishments in Louisiana", "2007 disestablishments in Louisiana", "Defunct Catholic secondary schools in Louisiana", "Educational institutions established in 1956", "Education in New Orleans"], "title": "Immaculata High School (Marrero, Louisiana)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729779", "text": "Bone Chillers\n\nBone Chillers is a series of children's horror fiction novels and a TV show created and authored by Betsy Haynes.\n\nFour freshmen at Edgar Allan Poe High School not only have to deal with the normal pressures of competing with the cool kids and the jocks, but also have to contend with all sorts of weird happenings. Like the similar series \"Goosebumps\", the stories that were originally about different people in each book were all changed to the setting of a haunted high school so as to provide a continuing cast. Assisting the main characters was Arnie the custodian, who lived in the school's basement. There was the feared cook of the school, Carl, the ditzy Miss Dewberry, and the evil Principal Percival Pussman.\n\nAt the end of each episode, original author Betsy Haynes would appear in an educational segment encouraging young viewers to exercise their imaginations.\n\nAlthough Betsy Haynes is the creator of the \"Bone Chillers\" series, some titles were written by other authors.\n\nSelected episodes were released on 3 VHS volumes in 1997 and have still not been released on DVD. All titles below remain out of print.\n\n\n", "id": "7729779", "categories": ["American children's fantasy television series", "American horror novels", "1990s American high school television series", "1990s American horror television series", "Series of children's books", "1996 American television series endings", "American Broadcasting Company network shows", "1996 American television series debuts"], "title": "Bone Chillers"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729811", "text": "Ashes to Ashes (Only Fools and Horses)\n\n\"Ashes to Ashes\" is an episode of the BBC sitcom, \"Only Fools and Horses\". It was the second episode of Series 2, and was first screened on 28 October 1982. The episode title was based on the Christian funeral service phrase \"ashes to ashes, dust to dust\".\n\nAs Del Boy and Rodney are in the market conducting business as usual, Trigger arrives and asks them if they will attend the funeral of his grandmother Alice. At first reluctant, they learn that they will be the only other mourners, so the Trotters agree.\n\nLater, after the funeral, Del, Rodney, Trigger, and Grandad hang out at Alice's house, and Trigger tells the Trotters that his father died a couple of years before he was born, as well as the story of how Alice had an affair with someone else while her husband Arthur was away fighting in the war. Among the many things in the house are two urns that Del can sell.\n\nThat night, back at the flat, as Del comes to the conclusion that the urns are valuable, Grandad looks in one of the urns and is shocked to see the ashes of Trigger's grandfather Arthur. Then, Grandad comes clean as he tells his grandsons that \"he\" was the other man who Alice had the affair with while Arthur was away, because his wife had left him at the time. When Arthur found out, he told Grandad that he would come back and haunt him someday. Del and Rodney do not believe that Arthur's ghost could have found Grandad, and go to bed.\n\nLater that night, at 3:00am, Del comes out of the bathroom, just to eavesdrop in on Grandad talking to the urn with Arthur's ashes in it. Del decides to wind him up by talking through a traffic cone, making Grandad think that Arthur's ghost is really talking to him. But unfortunately, Rodney is awakened by the noise and scares Del from behind. Grandad finally has enough and demands that Del and Rodney get the ashes out of the flat. But, Del and Rodney can't get hold of Trigger, since he's on holiday in Ireland. Grandad suggests scattering Arthur's ashes at his old hangout, the Peckham Bowling Green, tomorrow night.\n\nThe next night, at the bowling club, Del and Rodney decide to scatter the ashes evenly while saying a prayer, but unfortunately, they do not get to do so as the clubhouse lights up and the players arrive. The Trotter brothers quickly escape into the night.\n\nThe next morning, Del and Rodney try to pour Arthur's ashes into the water at St Katharine Docks, but are stopped by a river policeman (played by John D. Collins) from doing so.\n\nAfter failing to pour the ashes into a cement mixer, the Trotters get lucky when a council cleaning lorry sucks up the ashes from the urn. Del is convinced that it makes sense since Arthur used to be a roadsweeper, but Rodney is not sure.\n\nWhen they get back home, Grandad tells Del and Rodney that Trigger received their telephone calls, since he's fogbound at the airport. Trigger tells Del something that Grandad forgot to mention: Trigger's grandmother Alice had been married twice. Del then shows Grandad the other urn which of course is full of ashes.\n", "id": "7729811", "categories": ["Only Fools and Horses episodes", "1982 British television episodes"], "title": "Ashes to Ashes (Only Fools and Horses)"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729829", "text": "Ben Greenman\n\nBen Greenman (born September 28, 1969) is a novelist and magazine journalist who has written fiction and non-fiction books, as well as many collaborations with pop-music artists like Questlove, George Clinton, Brian Wilson, Gene Simmons, and others. From 2000 to 2014, he was an editor at \"The New Yorker\".\n\nIn 2001 McSweeneys published Greenman's debut, \"Superbad\", a collection of humor pieces and serious short fiction that included several satirical musicals. It has the same title as, but not the same contents as, the popular teen comedy; Greenman engaged in a fake feud with Seth Rogen over the title. The book's cover art was a painting by the artist Mark Tansey. Greenman's next book, \"Superworse, the Novel: A Remix of Superbad\", was published in 2004 by Soft Skull, an independent Brooklyn publisher. It refashioned the book into a novel that was overseen and edited by a man named Laurence Once. Kirkus called it \"something extraordinary.\" \n\nIn 2007, Macadam/Cage published Greenman's second collection of stories. It was selected by Barnes and Noble for its Discover Great Writers series, and included both comic work and more serious stories like \"In the Air Room,\" which fictionalized the famous controversy over James McNeill Whistler and the Peacock Room. Elizabeth Gold, writing on SFGate, said that \"the best of the stories in this collection are more than funny.\" \nIn 2008, Hotel St. George press released a handmade and letterpress-printed edition of Greenman's book \"Correspondences\" that included an intricate book casing that unfolded to reveal three accordion books and a postcard. The project was reviewed favorably by the \"Los Angeles Times\" and \"Time Out\".\n\nIn 2009, Melville House published Greenman's second novel, which was a fictionalized biography of a funk-rock star based loosely on Sly Stone, Marvin Gaye, Curtis Mayfield, and others. The funk-rock star Swamp Dogg recorded a theme song for the book. Later in 2009, Greenman signed with Harper Collins: the first book announced was \"What He's Poised To Do\", an expanded paperback based on the material from \"Correspondences\". The book was praised by Steve Almond in the \"Los Angeles Times\".\n\nIn 2010, Greenman adapted the short stories of the Russian master Anton Chekhov, updating them by replacing their characters with modern celebrities. Pop Matters, praising the collection, said \"the very, very best of these stories make us weep.\" \n\nGreenman's novel, \"The Slippage\", was published by Harper Perennial in 2013. The book included a character who was a chart artist and whose work consisted of meta-charts; Greenman created a number of them and posted them at ILoveCharts.com and McSweeneys, among other places. \"The New York Times\" praised the novel as \"fluid and commanding.\" \n\nIn the summer of 2016, Little A published \"Emotional Rescue\", a collection of essays about pop music and relationships.\n\nGreenman has also collaborated on celebrity memoirs. His most frequent collaborator has been Questlove; he co-wrote the hip-hop memoir Mo Meta Blue and a food-themed book called Something to Food About. In addition, he wrote memoirs with the funk musician George Clinton and Brian Wilson, co-founder of the Beach Boys, as well as with the actress Mariel Hemingway, Gene Simmons of KISS, and Simon Cowell of American Idol. The Questlove and Wilson books were best-sellers.\n\nGreenman's journalism and short fiction have appeared in many magazines and newspapers, including \"The New Yorker\", where he worked as an editor from 2000 to 2014, the \"Paris Review\", . He has also moderated many events, including Literary Death Match, Literary Upstart, and the National Book Foundation's 5 Under 35 Ceremony.\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "7729829", "categories": ["Novelists from Illinois", "Writers from Miami", "Novelists from Florida", "American male novelists", "American magazine editors", "The New Yorker staff writers", "Writers from Chicago", "Living people", "21st-century American non-fiction writers", "The New Yorker people", "21st-century American male writers", "21st-century American novelists", "1969 births", "Yale University alumni"], "title": "Ben Greenman"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729848", "text": "Glaber\n\nGlaber, a Latin word meaning \"bald\", may refer to :\n\n", "id": "7729848", "categories": [], "title": "Glaber"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729861", "text": "Platyrrhinus\n\nPlatyrrhinus is a genus of leaf-nosed bats in the tribe Stenodermatini of family Phyllostomidae. Twenty one species are known:\n\n", "id": "7729861", "categories": ["Taxa named by Henri Louis Frédéric de Saussure", "Bat genera", "Platyrrhinus"], "title": "Platyrrhinus"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729863", "text": "5 mm/35 SMc\n\n5 mm/35 SMc is a high performance 5 mm (.20 inch) cartridge. Designed by Michael McPherson and Byrom Smalley and like all of their other designs carries the \"SMc\" moniker as well as being patented.\n\nSMc cartridges were developed in an attempt to produce an efficient cartridge combining low recoil, low heat, and high velocity. The 5 mm/35 SMc has produced velocities in excess of shooting a molybdenum disulfide-coated Berger bullet from a Pac-Nor barrel, far higher than its commercial counterpart the .204 Ruger.\n\nAlthough it is a wildcat cartridge, rifles chambered for 5mm/35 are available from the custom shop at Savage Arms.\n\nThe patents for the cartridge are , and .\n\n\n", "id": "7729863", "categories": ["Pistol and rifle cartridges", "Wildcat cartridges"], "title": "5 mm/35 SMc"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729866", "text": "Andre Stitt\n\nAndré Stitt (born 1958 in Belfast, Northern Ireland) is an artist currently based in Cardiff, Wales, where he is a Professor of Fine Art at the Cardiff School of Art & Design.\n\nStitt's family moved from Belfast in the 1960s and spent his early life in Seymour Hill, where he attended Dunmurry High School before going to Art College. From 1980-1999 he lived and worked in London, presenting his work increasingly internationally throughout the eighties.\n\nHe is currently a Professor of Fine Art/Painting at the Cardiff School of Art & Design, Cardiff Metropolitan University. He is chair of CFAR (the Centre for Fine Art Research) and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Art and of the Higher Education Academy.\n\nWorking almost exclusively in live and interdisciplinary art from 1976–2000, Stitt gained an international reputation for cutting edge, provocative and politically challenging work. His artistic concern is prevailingly that of communities and their dissolution, often relating to trauma, conflict and art as a redemptive proposition. He often relates this back to the city of Belfast and the 'Troubles' it was going through during his upbringing. His live performance and installation works have been presented at major museums, galleries and sites specific throughout the world.\n\nHis work has been included in group exhibitions among others at MoMA PS1, New York City (2000), Venice Biennale (2005), Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art, Gateshead, United Kingdom (2005), Bangkok Art and Culture Centre (2008), Galerie Suvi Lehtinen, Berlin (2011), and at the John Moore's Painting Prize Exhibition at the Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool (2012), and the National Eisteddfod of Wales, Visual Arts Exhibition (2012).\n\nSolo exhibitions include: Le Lieu Centre en Art Actuel, Quebec (2001); Chapter Arts Centre, Cardiff (2005); The Drawing Center, New York (2006); Artspace, Sydney, (2007); Spacex Gallery, England (2008); The Lab, New York (2009); Millennium Court Arts Centre, Northern Ireland (2009); GTgallery, Belfast; St Paul St. Gallery, Auckland (2011); St David's Hall, Cardiff (2012); Warning Contemporary Art, Belfast (2012); Oriel Myrddin, Carmarthen, and at the Leeds College of Art Gallery.\n\nBBC News stated that \"Stitt is considered to be one of Europe's foremost interdisciplinary artists.\" \nHe has worked as a live artist since 1976, presenting his work in galleries, festivals, alternative venues and sites throughout the world. Stitt is identified with a strain of interdisciplinary art relating more to visual art and action, identified in his work as \"akshun\".\n\nStitt gained national attention in 2003 over his artwork \"White Trash Curry Kick\", part of a series of nine live artworks he was commissioned to carry out entitled \"The Bedford Project\". It was reported by the BBC on their news website as \"Artist gets a kick out of curry\". The performance, in which Stitt was to kick a carton of take-away curry through Bedford town center on a Saturday night, was eventually cancelled because of crowd safety fears.\nAlthough his reputation was founded on his career as a live interdisciplinary artist, Stitt originally trained as a painter. In recent years he has re-focused on the materials, processes and performance of painting. His recent painting work conveys a tangible sense of physical and spatial tension, capturing the surface world and the abstract or cognitive one behind it. \nIn 2008 he was awarded the Creative Wales Award from Arts Council of Wales to develop his painting practice, and has since radically changed his output to painting. \nStitt was a member of the Punk Rock band Ask Mother (1977–1980) and is a member of The Panacea Society. Ask Mother are featured on the Ulster Punk Rock compilation \"Shellshock Rockers' Vol.ll\" released by Spit Records in Northern Ireland (2013). The Panacea Society has released several 10\" vinyl records and the CD album \"We Don't Dig Doom\" (Dogfingers, Texas 2007).\n\nSolo Stitt CD's include \"Working on The Bypass\" (ND, Texas, and Locus+ UK, 2004), \"East Poppyfields\" (Dogfingers, Texas, 2004) and \"Easter\" (Offmusic/Tamtoto, Europe, 2004).\n\n\n\n", "id": "7729866", "categories": ["British contemporary artists", "Artists from Belfast", "Performance artists from Northern Ireland", "Interdisciplinary artists", "Living people", "1958 births", "Irish contemporary artists"], "title": "Andre Stitt"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729873", "text": "Lavay Smith\n\nLavay Smith (born 1967) is an American singer specializing in blues, jazz, and swing. She tours with her eight-piece \"little big band\", Lavay Smith & Her Red Hot Skillet Lickers.\n\nThe fourth of five children, Lavay Smith was born in Long Beach, California. Her father was a jazz fan, and she grew up hearing Fats Waller, Bessie Smith, Helen Humes, Billie Holiday, and Dinah Washington, though she listened to genres outside of jazz. When she was twelve, she moved with her family to the Philippines. In her teens she sang in a rock band in Manila, performing for members of the American military. The family moved back to California, where she attended high school. After moving to San Francisco, she sang in coffee houses, accompanying herself on guitar. She formed the Red Hot Skiller Lickers in 1989 with Chris Siebert, who was a member of the washboard-jazz band Bo Grumpus with guitarist Craig Ventresco. Smith combined \"red hot\" with Gid Tanner's 1920s country band, the Skillet Lickers. The band played rock and roll clubs, then became popular with the swing revival that started several years later. Their first album was released in 1996. The song \"Everybody's Talkin' 'bout Miss Thang\" peaked at No. 24 on the \"Billboard\" magazine Jazz chart in 2000.\n\nSince 1996 she has performed and toured with an eight-piece lineup (four horns and four rhythm) of trumpet, trombone, alto saxophone, tenor saxophone, piano, guitar, bass, and drums. Occasionally, Lavay expands the band to ten pieces (six horns and four rhythm) by adding a second trumpet and a baritone. Lavay also performs with a sixteen-piece big band.\n\nThe band consists of Bill Ortiz (trumpet); Mike Olmos (trumpet); Danny Armstrong (trombone); Jules Broussard (alto and tenor saxophones); Charles McNeal (alto and tenor saxophones); Howard Wiley (tenor saxophone); Robert Stewart (tenor saxophone); Pete Cornell (alto, tenor and baritone saxophones); Chris Siebert (piano, arranger, bandleader), Charlie Siebert (guitar); David Ewell (double bass); Marcus Shelby (double bass); and Darrell Green (drums). Arrangements are written by Chris Siebert and David Berger.\n\n\n\n", "id": "7729873", "categories": ["1967 births", "American female singers", "Living people", "People from Long Beach, California", "Swing revival musicians", "Swing revival ensembles"], "title": "Lavay Smith"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729877", "text": "James Harper McDonald\n\nJames Harper McDonald (July 15, 1900 – December 29, 1973) was a United States Navy diver and a recipient of America's highest military decoration—the Medal of Honor—for his actions during the salvage of the sunken submarine .\n\nJames McDonald enlisted in the U.S. Navy in October 1920, was discharged three years later and reenlisted in February 1926. Trained as a metalsmith, and later as a diver, he was commended in 1928 and 1930 for his excellent diving work. McDonald was designated a Master Diver in October 1934. From May to September 1939, he was heavily involved in rescue and salvage efforts on the USS \"Squalus\". Four members of the salvage team were awarded the Medal of Honor for their actions during that operation. James McDonald, then a Chief Metalsmith, and three fellow divers (Chief Machinist's Mate William Badders, Chief Torpedoman John Mihalowski, and Chief Boatswain's Mate Orson L. Crandall) received their Medals of Honor from Secretary of the Navy Charles Edison during a ceremony held at the Navy Department offices on January 19, 1940.\n\nContinuing his Naval service into World War II, McDonald became a commissioned officer. He retired after the war with the rank of Lieutenant.\n\nJames Harper McDonald died at the age of 73 and was buried in Fishing Creek Cemetery, Roulette, Pennsylvania.\n\nChief Metalsmith McDonald's official Medal of Honor citation reads:\nFor extraordinary heroism in the line of his profession as a Master Diver throughout the rescue and salvage operations following the sinking of the U.S.S. \"Squalus\" on 23 May 1939. His leadership, masterly skill, general efficiency and untiring devotion to duty in directing diving operations, and in making important and difficult dives under the most hazardous conditions, characterize conduct far above and beyond the ordinary call of duty.\n\n", "id": "7729877", "categories": ["1973 deaths", "Scottish-born Medal of Honor recipients", "United States Navy officers", "Scottish emigrants to the United States", "United States Navy Medal of Honor recipients", "1900 births"], "title": "James Harper McDonald"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729884", "text": "XEITE-AM\n\nXEITE-AM is a radio station in Mexico City, broadcasting on 830 kHz.\n\nXELA-AM was founded in 1940 in Mexico City with a classical music format. For many years it was one of the few sources of classical music available to ordinary Mexican citizens. XELA was able to acquire quality sound recordings from the United States, England and France, even though it started with a very low budget, through an exchange program for Mexican music recordings. The station was acquired by Grupo Imagen in 1963.\n\nFrom the 1970s to the mid-1980s, the station simulcast on XELA-FM 98.5. That station was split off in the mid-1980s.\n\nThe station was threatened with closure in 2000, but protests by listeners from laborers to the intelligentsia keep it open for a while longer. Their slogan was \"Buena música desde la Ciudad de México!\" (\"Good music from Mexico City!\").\n\nIn 1999, XELA was sold to Imagen Tecnologías, who in 2002 brokered its airtime and dropped the classical music format for sports, as \"Estadio W 830\" (a format now found on XEX-AM) and changed the callsign to XEITE-AM. The change resulted in protests from the station's dedicated listeners; some famous Mexican cultural luminaries, including Elena Poniatowska, José Luis Cuevas, Vicente Quirarte and Víctor Hugo Rascón, formed the \"National XELA Rescue Committee\" (or CONAREXELA) on July 10 of that year. The group sought for the Instituto Mexicano de la Radio to take over the station, but IMER refused, saying it would incorporate that format into its own XHIMER-FM 94.5.\n\nIn 2004, the station was sold to Grupo Radio Capital (now known as Capital Media). The Radio Capital format included news and sports programming as well as contemporary music.\n\nAt 7pm on February 14, 2019, Radio Capital in Mexico City ceased operations to make way for the relocation of the Quiéreme romantic format from Grupo Siete from 1440 XEEST-AM, which shares transmission facilities with XEITE.\n\n\n", "id": "7729884", "categories": ["Radio stations in Mexico City"], "title": "XEITE-AM"}
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729889", "text": "Sibynophis\n\nSibynophis is a genus of colubrid snakes, commonly called many-toothed snakes, which together with \"Scaphiodontophis\" make up the subfamily Sibynophiinae.\n\nThe following nine species are recognized.\n\n", "id": "7729889", "categories": ["Snake genera", "Colubrids", "Taxa named by Leopold Fitzinger"], "title": "Sibynophis"}
